4 Zone, conduit and risk assessment requirements
4.1 Overview
Clause 4 describes the requirements for partitioning an SUC into zones and conduits as well
as the requirements for assessing the cyber security risk and determining the SL-T for each
defined zone and conduit. The requirements introduced in Clause 4 are referred to as zone
and conduit requirements (ZCR). Clause 4 also provides rationale and supplemental guidance
on each of the requirements. Figure 1 is a workflow diagram outlining the primary steps
required to establish zones and conduits, as well as to assess risk. The steps are numbered
to indicate their relationship to the ZCRs.
BS EN IEC 62443‑3‑2:2020
– 12 – IEC 62443-3-2:2020 © IEC 2020
Figure 1 – Workflow diagram outlining the primary steps required
to establish zones and conduits, as well as to assess risk
BS EN IEC 62443‑3‑2:2020
IEC 62443-3-2:2020 © IEC 2020 – 13 –
4.2 ZCR 1: Identify the SUC
4.2.1 ZCR 1.1: Identify the SUC perimeter and access points
4.2.1.1 Requirement
The organization shall clearly identify the SUC, including clear demarcation of the security
perimeter and identification of all access points to the SUC.
4.2.1.2 Rationale and supplemental guidance
Organizations typically own and operate multiple control systems, especially larger
organizations with multiple industrial facilities. Any of these control systems may be defined
as a SUC. For example, there is generally at least one control system at an industrial facility,
but oftentimes there are several systems that control various functions within the facility.
This requirement specifies that SUCs are identified for the purpose of performing cyber
security analysis. The definition of a SUC is intended to include all IACS assets that are
needed to provide a complete automation solution.
System inventory, architecture diagrams, network diagrams and dataflows can be used to
determine and illustrate the IACS assets that are included in the SUC description.
NOTE The SUC can include multiple subsystems such as basic process control systems (BPCSs), distributed
control systems (DCSs), safety instrumented systems (SISs), supervisory control and data acquisition (SCADA)
and IACS product supplier’s packages. This could also include emerging technologies such as the industrial
Internet of Things (IIoT) or cloud-based solutions.
4.3 ZCR 2: Initial cyber security risk assessment
4.3.1 ZCR 2.1: Perform initial cyber security risk assessment
4.3.1.1 Requirement
The organization shall perform a cyber security risk assessment of the SUC or confirm a
previous initial cyber security risk assessment is still applicable in order to identify the worst
case unmitigated cyber security risk that could result from the interference with, breach or
disruption of, or disablement of mission critical IACS operations.
4.3.1.2 Rationale and supplemental guidance
The purpose of the initial cyber security risk assessment is to gain an initial understanding of
the worst-case risk the SUC presents to the organization should it be compromised. This is
typically evaluated in terms of impacts to health, safety, environmental, business interruption,
production loss, product quality, financial, legal, regulatory, reputation, etc. This assessment
assists with the prioritization of detailed risk assessments and facilitates the grouping of
assets into zones and conduits within the SUC.
For potentially hazardous processes, the results of the process hazard analysis (PHA) and
functional safety assessments as defined in IEC 61511-2 [8] should be referenced as part of
the initial cyber security risk assessment to identify worst-case impacts. Organizations should
also take into consideration threat intelligence from governments, sector specific Information
Sharing and Analysis Centers (ISACs) and other relevant sources.
Assessment of initial risk is often accomplished using a risk matrix that establishes the
relationship between likelihood, impact and risk (such as, a corporate risk matrix). Examples
of risk matrices can be found in Annex B.
BS EN IEC 62443‑3‑2:2020
– 14 – IEC 62443-3-2:2020 © IEC 2020
4.4 ZCR 3: Partition the SUC into zones and conduits
4.4.1 Overview
Subclauses 4.4.2 through 4.8.1 describe the ZCRs for partitioning the SUC into zones and
conduits and provide rationale and supplemental guidance for each requirement. Subclause
4.4.2, sets out the base requirement for establishing zones and conduits within the SUC.
Subclauses 4.4.3 through 4.4.7 are intended to provide guidance on assignment of assets to
zones based upon industry best practices. This is not intended to be an exhaustive list.
4.4.2 ZCR 3.1: Establish zones and conduits
4.4.2.1 Requirement
The organization shall group IACS and related assets into zones or conduits as determined by
risk. Grouping shall be based upon the results of the initial cyber security risk assessment or
other criteria, such as criticality of assets, operational function, physical or logical location,
required access (for example, least privilege principles) or responsible organization.
4.4.2.2 Rationale and supplemental guidance
The intention of grouping assets into zones and conduits is to identify those assets which
share common security requirements and to permit the identification of common security
measures required to mitigate risk. The assignment of IACS assets to zones and conduits
may be adjusted based upon the results of the detailed risk assessment. This is a general
requirement, but special attention should be given to the safety related systems including
safety instrumented systems, wireless systems, systems directly connected to Internet
endpoints, systems that interface to the IACS but are managed by other entities (including
external systems) and mobile devices.
For example, a facility might first be divided into operational areas, such as materials storage,
processing, finishing, etc. Operational areas can often be further divided into functional layers,
such as manufacturing execution systems (MESs), supervisory systems (for example, human
machine interfaces [HMIs]), primary control systems (for example, BPCS, DCS, remote
terminal units [RTUs] and programmable logic controllers [PLCs]) and safety systems. Models
such as the Purdue reference model as defined in IEC 62264-1 [9] are often used as a basis
for this division. IACS product supplier reference architectures can also be helpful.
4.4.3 ZCR 3.2: Separate business and IACS assets
4.4.3.1 Requirement
IACS assets shall be grouped into zones that are logically or physically separated from
business or enterprise system assets.
4.4.3.2 Rationale and supplemental guidance
Business and IACS are two different types of systems that need to be divided into separate
zones as their functionality, responsible organization, results of initial risk assessment and
location are often fundamentally different. It is important to understand the basic difference
between business and IACS, and the ability of IACS to impact health, safety and environment
(HSE).
4.4.4 ZCR 3.3: Separate safety related assets
4.4.4.1 Requirement
Safety related IACS assets shall be grouped into zones that are logically or physically
separated from zones with non-safety related IACS assets. However, if they cannot be
separated, the entire zone shall be identified as a safety related zone.
BS EN IEC 62443‑3‑2:2020
IEC 62443-3-2:2020 © IEC 2020 – 15 –
4.4.4.2 Rationale and supplemental guidance
Safety related IACS assets usually have different security requirements than basic control
system components or systems, and components interfaced to the control system
components. Safety related zones typically require a higher-level of security protection due to
the higher potential for health, safety and environmental consequences if the zone is
compromised.
4.4.5 ZCR 3.4: Separate temporarily connected devices
4.4.5.1 Recommendation
Devices that are permitted to make temporary connections to the SUC should be grouped into
a separate zone or zones from assets that are intended to be permanently connected to the
IACS.
4.4.5.2 Rationale and supplemental guidance
Devices that are temporarily connected to the SUC (for example, maintenance portable
computers, portable processing equipment, portable security appliances and universal serial
bus [USB] devices) are more likely exposed to a different and wider variety of threats than
devices that are permanently part of the zone. Therefore, these devices should be modelled in
a separate zone or zones. The primary concern with these devices is that, because of the
temporary nature of the connection, they may also be able to connect to other networks
outside the zone. However, there are exceptions. For example, a hand-held device that is only
used within a single zone and never leaves the physical boundary of the zone may be
included in the zone.
4.4.6 ZCR 3.5: Separate wireless devices
4.4.6.1 Recommendation
Wireless devices should be in one or more zones that are separated from wired devices.
4.4.6.2 Rationale and supplemental guidance
Wireless signals are not controlled by fences or cabinets and are therefore more accessible
than normal wired networks. Because of this increased access potential, they are more likely
exposed to a different and wider variety of threats than devices that are wired.
Typically, a wireless access point is modelled as the conduit between a wireless zone and a
wired zone. Depending upon the capabilities of the wireless access point additional security
controls (for example, firewall) may be required to provide appropriate level of separation.
4.4.7 ZCR 3.6: Separate devices connected via external networks
4.4.7.1 Recommendation
Devices that are permitted to make connections to the SUC via networks external to the SUC
should be grouped into a separate zone or zones.
4.4.7.2 Rationale and supplemental guidance
It is not uncommon for organizations to grant remote access to personnel such as employees,
suppliers and other business partners for maintenance, optimization and reporting purposes.
Because remote access is outside the physical boundary of the SUC, it should be modelled as
a separate zone or zones with its own security requirements.