 – 6 –
 IEC 62443-3-2:2020 © IEC 2020
 INTRODUCTION
 There is no simple recipe for how to secure an industrial automation and control system (IACS)
 and there is good reason for this. It is because security is a matter of risk management. Every
 IACS presents a different risk to the organization depending upon the threats it is exposed to,
 the likelihood of those threats arising, the inherent vulnerabilities in the system and the
 consequences if the system were to be compromised. Furthermore, every organization that
 owns and operates an IACS has a different tolerance for risk.
 This document strives to define a set of engineering measures that will guide an organization
 through the process of assessing the risk of a particular IACS and identifying and applying
 security countermeasures to reduce that risk to tolerable levels.
 A key concept in this document is the application of IACS security zones and conduits. Zones
 and conduits are introduced in IEC TS 62443-1-1.
 This document has been developed in cooperation with the ISA99 liaison. ISA99 is the
 committee on Industrial Automation and Control Systems Security of the International Society
 of Automation (ISA).
 The audience for this document is intended to include the asset owner, system integrator,
 product supplier, service provider, and compliance authority.
 This document provides a basis for specifying security countermeasures by aligning the target
 security levels (SL-Ts) identified in this document with the required capability security levels
 (SL-Cs) specified in IEC 62443-3-3.
 BS EN IEC 62443‑3‑2:2020
 IEC 62443-3-2:2020 © IEC 2020
 – 7 –
 SECURITY FOR INDUSTRIAL AUTOMATION AND CONTROL SYSTEMS –
 Part 3-2: Security risk assessment for system design
 1
 Scope
 This part of IEC 62443 establishes requirements for:
 •
 defining a system under consideration (SUC) for an industrial automation and control
 system (IACS);
 •
 partitioning the SUC into zones and conduits;
 •
 assessing risk for each zone and conduit;
 •
 establishing the target security level (SL-T) for each zone and conduit; and
 •
 documenting the security requirements.
 2
 Normative references
 The following documents are referred to in the text in such a way that some or all of their
 content constitutes requirements of this document. For dated references, only the edition
 cited applies. For undated references, the latest edition of the referenced document (including
 any amendments) applies.
 IEC 62443-3-3:2013, Industrial communication networks – Network and system security –
 Part 3-3: System security requirements and security levels
 3
 Terms, definitions, abbreviated terms, acronyms and conventions
 3.1
 Terms and definitions
 For the purposes of this document, the following terms and definitions apply.
 ISO and IEC maintain terminological databases for use in standardization at the following
 addresses:
 •
 ISO Online browsing platform: available at https://www.iso.org/obp
 •
 IEC Electropedia: available at http://www.electropedia.org/
 3.1.1
 channel
 specific logical or physical communication link between assets
 Note 1 to entry: A channel facilitates the establishment of a connection.
 3.1.2
 compliance authority
 entity with jurisdiction to determine the adequacy of a security assessment or the
 effectiveness of implementation as specified in a governing document
 Note 1 to entry: Examples of compliance authorities include government agencies, regulators, external and
 internal auditors.
BS EN IEC 62443‑3‑2:2020
 – 8 –
 IEC 62443-3-2:2020 © IEC 2020
 3.1.3
 conduit
 logical grouping of communication channels that share common security requirements
 connecting two or more zones
 3.1.4
 confidentiality
 preservation of authorized restrictions on information access and disclosure, including means
 for protecting personal privacy and proprietary information
 3.1.5
 consequence
 result of an incident, usually described in terms of health and safety effects, environmental
 impacts, loss of property, loss of information (for example, intellectual property), and/or
 business interruption costs, that occurs from a particular incident
 3.1.6
 countermeasure
 action, device, procedure, or technique that reduces a threat, a vulnerability, or the
 consequences of an attack by eliminating or preventing it, by minimizing the harm it can
 cause, or by discovering and reporting it so that corrective action can be taken
 Note 1 to entry: The term “control” is also used to describe this concept in some contexts. The term
 countermeasure has been chosen for this document to avoid confusion with the word control in the context of
 “process control.”
 3.1.7
 cyber security
 measures taken to protect a computer or computer system against unauthorized access or
 attack
 Note 1 to entry: IACS are computer systems.
 3.1.8
 dataflow
 movement of data through a system comprised of software, hardware, or a combination of
 both
 3.1.9
 external network
 network that is connected to the SUC that is not part of the SUC
 3.1.10
 impact
 measure of the ultimate loss or harm associated with a consequence
 EXAMPLE: The consequence of the incident was a spill. The impact of the spill was a $100 000 fine and $25 000
 in clean-up expenses.
 Note 1 to entry: Impact may be expressed in terms of numbers of injuries and/or fatalities, extent of
 environmental damage and/or magnitude of losses such as property damage, material loss, loss of intellectual
 property, lost production, market share loss, and recovery costs.
 3.1.11
 likelihood
 chance of something happening
 Note 1 to entry: In risk management terminology, the word “likelihood” is used to refer to the chance of something
 happening, whether defined, measured or determined objectively or subjectively, qualitatively or quantitatively, and
 described using general terms or mathematically (such as a probability or a frequency over a given time period).
 BS EN IEC 62443‑3‑2:2020
 IEC 62443-3-2:2020 © IEC 2020
 – 9 –
 Note 2 to entry: A number of factors are considered when estimating likelihood in information system risk
 management such as the motivation and capability of the threat source, the history of similar threats, known
 vulnerabilities, the attractiveness of the target, etc.
 [SOURCE: ISO Guide 73:2009 [13]1, 3.6.1.1 and ISO/IEC 27005:2018 [12], 3.7]
 3.1.12
 process hazard analysis
 set of organized and systematic assessments of the potential hazards associated with an
 industrial process
 3.1.13
 residual risk
 risk that remains after existing countermeasures are implemented (such as, the net risk or risk
 after countermeasures are applied)
 3.1.14
 risk
 expectation of loss expressed as the likelihood that a particular threat will exploit a particular
 vulnerability with a particular consequence
 3.1.15
 security level
 SL
 measure of confidence that the SUC, security zone or conduit is free from vulnerabilities and
 functions in the intended manner
 3.1.16
 security perimeter
 logical or physical boundary surrounding all the assets that are controlled and protected by
 the security zone
 3.1.17
 system under consideration
 SUC
 defined collection of IACS assets that are needed to provide a complete automation solution,
 including any relevant network infrastructure assets
 Note 1 to entry: An SUC consists of one or more zones and related conduits. All assets within a SUC belong to
 either a zone or conduit.
 3.1.18
 threat
 circumstance or event with the potential to adversely impact organizational operations
 (including mission, functions, image or reputation) and/or organizational assets including
 IACS
 Note 1 to entry: Circumstances include individuals who, contrary to security policy, intentionally or unintentionally
 prevent access to data or cause the destruction, disclosure, or modification of data such as control
 logic/parameters, protection logic/parameters or diagnostics.
 3.1.19
 threat environment
 summary of information about threats, such as threat sources, threat vectors and trends, that
 have the potential to adversely impact a defined target (for example, company, facility or SUC)
 _______________
 1 Numbers in square brackets refer to the bibliography.
BS EN IEC 62443‑3‑2:2020
 – 10 –
 IEC 62443-3-2:2020 © IEC 2020
 3.1.20
 threat source
 intent and method targeted at the intentional exploitation of a vulnerability or a situation and
 method that can accidentally exploit a vulnerability
 3.1.21
 threat vector
 path or means by which a threat source can gain access to an asset
 3.1.22
 tolerable risk
 level of risk deemed acceptable to an organization
 Note 1 to entry: Organizations should include consideration of legal requirements when establishing tolerable risk.
 Additional guidance on establishing tolerable risk can be found in ISO 31000 [14] and NIST 800-39 [16].
 3.1.23
 unmitigated cyber security risk
 level of cyber security risk that is present in a system before any cyber security
 countermeasures are considered
 Note 1 to entry: This level helps identify how much cyber security risk reduction is required to be provided by any
 countermeasure.
 3.1.24
 vulnerability
 flaw or weakness in a system's design, implementation or operation and management that
 could be exploited to violate the system's integrity or security policy
 3.1.25
 zone
 grouping of logical or physical assets based upon risk or other criteria, such as criticality of
 assets, operational function, physical or logical location, required access (for example, least
 privilege principles) or responsible organization
 Note 1 to entry: Collection of logical or physical assets that represents partitioning of a system under
 consideration on the basis of their common security requirements, criticality (for example, high financial, health,
 safety, or environmental impact), functionality, logical and physical (including location) relationship.
 3.2
 Abbreviated terms and acronyms
 The list below defines the abbreviated terms and acronyms used in this document.
 ANSI
 American National Standards Institute
 BPCS
 Basic process control system
 CERT
 Computer emergency response team
 CRS
 Cyber security requirements specification
 DCS
 Distributed control system
 HMI
 Human machine interface
 HSE
 Health, safety and environment
 HVAC
 Heating, ventilation and air-conditioning
 IACS
 Industrial automation and control system(s)
 ICS-CERT
 Industrial control system CERT
 IEC
 International Electrotechnical Commission
 IIoT
 Industrial Internet of Things
 IPL
 Independent protection layer
 BS EN IEC 62443‑3‑2:2020
 IEC 62443-3-2:2020 © IEC 2020
 – 11 –
 ISA
 International Society of Automation
 ISAC
 Information Sharing and Analysis Centers
 ISO
 International Organization for Standardization
 MES
 Manufacturing execution system
 NIST
 [US] National Institute of Standards and Technology
 PHA
 Process hazard analysis
 PLC
 Programmable logic controller
 RTU
 Remote terminal unit
 SCADA
 Supervisory control and data acquisition
 SIS
 Safety instrumented system
 SUC
 System under consideration
 SL
 Security level
 SL-A
 Achieved SL
 SL-C
 Capability SL
 SL-T
 Target SL
 SP
 [US NIST] Special Publication
 USB
 Universal serial bus
 ZCR
 Zone and conduit requirement
 3.3
 Conventions
 This document uses flowcharts to illustrate the workflow between requirements. These
 flowcharts are informative. Alternate workflows may be used.
 4
 Zone, conduit and risk assessment requirements
 4.1
 Overview
 Clause 4 describes the requirements for partitioning an SUC into zones and conduits as well
 as the requirements for assessing the cyber security risk and determining the SL-T for each
 defined zone and conduit. The requirements introduced in Clause 4 are referred to as zone
 and conduit requirements (ZCR). Clause 4 also provides rationale and supplemental guidance
 on each of the requirements. Figure 1 is a workflow diagram outlining the primary steps
 required to establish zones and conduits, as well as to assess risk. The steps are numbered
 to indicate their relationship to the ZCRs.
BS EN IEC 62443‑3‑2:2020
 – 12 –
 IEC 62443-3-2:2020 © IEC 2020
 Figure 1 – Workflow diagram outlining the primary steps required
 to establish zones and conduits, as well as to assess risk
 BS EN IEC 62443‑3‑2:2020
 IEC 62443-3-2:2020 © IEC 2020
 – 13 –
 4.2
 ZCR 1: Identify the SUC
 4.2.1
 ZCR 1.1: Identify the SUC perimeter and access points
 4.2.1.1
 Requirement
 The organization shall clearly identify the SUC, including clear demarcation of the security
 perimeter and identification of all access points to the SUC.
 4.2.1.2
 Rationale and supplemental guidance
 Organizations typically own and operate multiple control systems, especially larger
 organizations with multiple industrial facilities. Any of these control systems may be defined
 as a SUC. For example, there is generally at least one control system at an industrial facility,
 but oftentimes there are several systems that control various functions within the facility.
 This requirement specifies that SUCs are identified for the purpose of performing cyber
 security analysis. The definition of a SUC is intended to include all IACS assets that are
 needed to provide a complete automation solution.
 System inventory, architecture diagrams, network diagrams and dataflows can be used to
 determine and illustrate the IACS assets that are included in the SUC description.
 NOTE The SUC can include multiple subsystems such as basic process control systems (BPCSs), distributed
 control systems (DCSs), safety instrumented systems (SISs), supervisory control and data acquisition (SCADA)
 and IACS product supplier’s packages. This could also include emerging technologies such as the industrial
 Internet of Things (IIoT) or cloud-based solutions.
 4.3
 ZCR 2: Initial cyber security risk assessment
 4.3.1
 ZCR 2.1: Perform initial cyber security risk assessment
 4.3.1.1
 Requirement
 The organization shall perform a cyber security risk assessment of the SUC or confirm a
 previous initial cyber security risk assessment is still applicable in order to identify the worst
 case unmitigated cyber security risk that could result from the interference with, breach or
 disruption of, or disablement of mission critical IACS operations.
 4.3.1.2
 Rationale and supplemental guidance
 The purpose of the initial cyber security risk assessment is to gain an initial understanding of
 the worst-case risk the SUC presents to the organization should it be compromised. This is
 typically evaluated in terms of impacts to health, safety, environmental, business interruption,
 production loss, product quality, financial, legal, regulatory, reputation, etc. This assessment
 assists with the prioritization of detailed risk assessments and facilitates the grouping of
 assets into zones and conduits within the SUC.
 For potentially hazardous processes, the results of the process hazard analysis (PHA) and
 functional safety assessments as defined in IEC 61511-2 [8] should be referenced as part of
 the initial cyber security risk assessment to identify worst-case impacts. Organizations should
 also take into consideration threat intelligence from governments, sector specific Information
 Sharing and Analysis Centers (ISACs) and other relevant sources.
 Assessment of initial risk is often accomplished using a risk matrix that establishes the
 relationship between likelihood, impact and risk (such as, a corporate risk matrix). Examples
 of risk matrices can be found in Annex B.
BS EN IEC 62443‑3‑2:2020
 – 14 –
 IEC 62443-3-2:2020 © IEC 2020
 4.4
 ZCR 3: Partition the SUC into zones and conduits
 4.4.1
 Overview
 Subclauses 4.4.2 through 4.8.1 describe the ZCRs for partitioning the SUC into zones and
 conduits and provide rationale and supplemental guidance for each requirement. Subclause
 4.4.2, sets out the base requirement for establishing zones and conduits within the SUC.
 Subclauses 4.4.3 through 4.4.7 are intended to provide guidance on assignment of assets to
 zones based upon industry best practices. This is not intended to be an exhaustive list.
 4.4.2
 ZCR 3.1: Establish zones and conduits
 4.4.2.1
 Requirement
 The organization shall group IACS and related assets into zones or conduits as determined by
 risk. Grouping shall be based upon the results of the initial cyber security risk assessment or
 other criteria, such as criticality of assets, operational function, physical or logical location,
 required access (for example, least privilege principles) or responsible organization.
 4.4.2.2
 Rationale and supplemental guidance
 The intention of grouping assets into zones and conduits is to identify those assets which
 share common security requirements and to permit the identification of common security
 measures required to mitigate risk. The assignment of IACS assets to zones and conduits
 may be adjusted based upon the results of the detailed risk assessment. This is a general
 requirement, but special attention should be given to the safety related systems including
 safety instrumented systems, wireless systems, systems directly connected to Internet
 endpoints, systems that interface to the IACS but are managed by other entities (including
 external systems) and mobile devices.
 For example, a facility might first be divided into operational areas, such as materials storage,
 processing, finishing, etc. Operational areas can often be further divided into functional layers,
 such as manufacturing execution systems (MESs), supervisory systems (for example, human
 machine interfaces [HMIs]), primary control systems (for example, BPCS, DCS, remote
 terminal units [RTUs] and programmable logic controllers [PLCs]) and safety systems. Models
 such as the Purdue reference model as defined in IEC 62264-1 [9] are often used as a basis
 for this division. IACS product supplier reference architectures can also be helpful.
 4.4.3
 ZCR 3.2: Separate business and IACS assets
 4.4.3.1
 Requirement
 IACS assets shall be grouped into zones that are logically or physically separated from
 business or enterprise system assets.
 4.4.3.2
 Rationale and supplemental guidance
 Business and IACS are two different types of systems that need to be divided into separate
 zones as their functionality, responsible organization, results of initial risk assessment and
 location are often fundamentally different. It is important to understand the basic difference
 between business and IACS, and the ability of IACS to impact health, safety and environment
 (HSE).
 4.4.4
 ZCR 3.3: Separate safety related assets
 4.4.4.1
 Requirement
 Safety related IACS assets shall be grouped into zones that are logically or physically
 separated from zones with non-safety related IACS assets. However, if they cannot be
 separated, the entire zone shall be identified as a safety related zone.
 BS EN IEC 62443‑3‑2:2020
 IEC 62443-3-2:2020 © IEC 2020
 – 15 –
 4.4.4.2
 Rationale and supplemental guidance
 Safety related IACS assets usually have different security requirements than basic control
 system components or systems, and components interfaced to the control system
 components. Safety related zones typically require a higher-level of security protection due to
 the higher potential for health, safety and environmental consequences if the zone is
 compromised.
 4.4.5
 ZCR 3.4: Separate temporarily connected devices
 4.4.5.1
 Recommendation
 Devices that are permitted to make temporary connections to the SUC should be grouped into
 a separate zone or zones from assets that are intended to be permanently connected to the
 IACS.
 4.4.5.2
 Rationale and supplemental guidance
 Devices that are temporarily connected to the SUC (for example, maintenance portable
 computers, portable processing equipment, portable security appliances and universal serial
 bus [USB] devices) are more likely exposed to a different and wider variety of threats than
 devices that are permanently part of the zone. Therefore, these devices should be modelled in
 a separate zone or zones. The primary concern with these devices is that, because of the
 temporary nature of the connection, they may also be able to connect to other networks
 outside the zone. However, there are exceptions. For example, a hand-held device that is only
 used within a single zone and never leaves the physical boundary of the zone may be
 included in the zone.
 4.4.6
 ZCR 3.5: Separate wireless devices
 4.4.6.1
 Recommendation
 Wireless devices should be in one or more zones that are separated from wired devices.
 4.4.6.2
 Rationale and supplemental guidance
 Wireless signals are not controlled by fences or cabinets and are therefore more accessible
 than normal wired networks. Because of this increased access potential, they are more likely
 exposed to a different and wider variety of threats than devices that are wired.
 Typically, a wireless access point is modelled as the conduit between a wireless zone and a
 wired zone. Depending upon the capabilities of the wireless access point additional security
 controls (for example, firewall) may be required to provide appropriate level of separation.
 4.4.7
 ZCR 3.6: Separate devices connected via external networks
 4.4.7.1
 Recommendation
 Devices that are permitted to make connections to the SUC via networks external to the SUC
 should be grouped into a separate zone or zones.
 4.4.7.2
 Rationale and supplemental guidance
 It is not uncommon for organizations to grant remote access to personnel such as employees,
 suppliers and other business partners for maintenance, optimization and reporting purposes.
 Because remote access is outside the physical boundary of the SUC, it should be modelled as
 a separate zone or zones with its own security requirements.
BS EN IEC 62443‑3‑2:2020
 – 16 –
 IEC 62443-3-2:2020 © IEC 2020
 4.5
 ZCR 4: Risk comparison
 4.5.1
 Overview
 Subclause 4.5.2 includes one ZCR to compare initial risk to tolerable risk.
 4.5.2
 ZCR 4.1: Compare initial risk to tolerable risk
 4.5.2.1
 Requirement
 The initial risk determined in 4.3 shall be compared to the organization’s tolerable risk. If the
 initial risk exceeds the tolerable risk, the organization shall perform a detailed cyber security
 risk assessment as defined in 4.6.
 4.5.2.2
 Rationale and supplemental guidance
 The purpose of this step is to determine if the initial risk is tolerable or requires further
 mitigation.
 4.6
 ZCR 5: Perform a detailed cyber security risk assessment
 4.6.1
 Overview
 This ZCR discusses the detailed risk assessment requirements for an IACS and provides
 rationale and supplemental guidance on each requirement. The requirements in this ZCR
 apply to every zone and conduit. If zones or conduits share similar threat(s), consequences
 and/or similar assets, it is allowable to analyse groups of zones or conduits together if such
 grouping enables optimized analysis. It is permissible to use existing results if the zone is
 standardized (for example, replication of multiple instances of a reference design). The
 flowchart shown in Figure 2 illustrates the cyber security risk assessment workflow.
 Any detailed risk assessment methodology (such as, ISO 31000 [14], NIST SP 800-39 [16],
 and ISO/IEC 27005 [12]) may be followed provided the risk assessment requirements are
 satisfied by the methodology selected. The initial and detailed risk assessment methodologies
 should be derived from the same framework, standard or source and have to use a consistent
 risk ranking scale in order to produce consistent and coherent results.
 BS EN IEC 62443‑3‑2:2020
 IEC 62443-3-2:2020 © IEC 2020
 – 17 –
 Figure 2 – Detailed cyber security risk assessment workflow per zone or conduit
 4.6.2
 ZCR 5.1: Identify threats
 4.6.2.1
 Requirement
 A list of the threats that could affect the assets contained within the zone or conduit shall be
 developed.
 4.6.2.2
 Rationale and supplemental guidance
 It is important to prepare a comprehensive and realistic list of threats in order to perform a
 security risk assessment. A threat description should include but is not limited to the following:
 a) a description of the threat source;
 b) a description of the capability or skill-level of the threat source;
 c) a description of possible threat vectors;
BS EN IEC 62443‑3‑2:2020
 – 18 –
 IEC 62443-3-2:2020 © IEC 2020
 d) an identification of the potentially affected asset(s).
 Some examples of threat descriptions are:
 •
 A non-malicious employee physically accesses the process control zone and plugs a USB
 memory stick into one of the computers;
 •
 An authorized support person logically accesses the process control zone using an
 infected laptop; and
 •
 A non-malicious employee opens a phishing email compromising their access credentials.
 Given the potential for a large number of possible threats, it is acceptable to summarize by
 grouping sources, assets, entry points, etc. into classes.
 4.6.3
 ZCR 5.2: Identify vulnerabilities
 4.6.3.1
 Requirement
 The zone or conduit shall be analysed in order to identify and document the known
 vulnerabilities associated with the assets contained within the zone or conduit including the
 access points.
 4.6.3.2
 Rationale and supplemental guidance
 In order for a threat to be successful, it is necessary to exploit one or more vulnerabilities in
 an asset. Therefore, it is necessary to identify known vulnerabilities associated with the
 assets to better understand threat vectors.
 A generally accepted approach to identifying vulnerabilities in an IACS is to perform a
 vulnerability assessment. Additional information on IACS cyber security vulnerability
 assessments is available in ISA-TR84.00.09 [15].
 Additionally, there are numerous sources of information regarding known and common
 vulnerabilities in IACS, such as the industrial control system computer emergency response
 team (ICS-CERT), IACS product suppliers, etc.
 4.6.4
 ZCR 5.3: Determine consequence and impact
 4.6.4.1
 Requirement
 Each threat scenario shall be evaluated to determine the consequence and the impact should
 the threat be realized. Consequences should be documented in terms of the worst-case
 impact on risk areas such as personnel safety, financial loss, business interruption and
 environment.
 4.6.4.2
 Rationale and supplemental guidance
 Estimating the worst-case impact of a cyber threat is an important input in performing the
 cost/benefit analysis of security controls. If the worst-case impact is low, the risk assessment
 team may decide to proceed to the next threat.
 Existing PHA and other related risk assessments (such as, information technology, functional
 safety, business and physical security) should be reviewed to assist in determining
 consequences and impact.
 The measure of impact may be qualitative or quantitative. One method is to use a
 consequence scale that is defined by the organization as part of their risk management
 system (refer to Annex B for examples).
 BS EN IEC 62443‑3‑2:2020
 IEC 62443-3-2:2020 © IEC 2020
 – 19 –
 4.6.5
 ZCR 5.4: Determine unmitigated likelihood
 4.6.5.1
 Requirement
 Each threat shall be evaluated to determine the unmitigated likelihood. This is the likelihood
 that the threat will materialize.
 4.6.5.2
 Rationale and supplemental guidance
 In risk management terminology, the word “likelihood” is used to refer to the chance of
 something happening, whether defined, measured or determined objectively or subjectively,
 qualitatively or quantitatively, and described using general terms or mathematically (such as,
 a probability or a frequency over a given time period). A common method of estimating
 likelihood is to use a semi-quantitative likelihood scale that is defined by the organization as
 part of their risk management system (refer to Annex B for examples). Either qualitative or
 quantitative methods are allowed by this document.
 A number of factors are considered when estimating unmitigated likelihood such as the
 motivation and capability of the threat source, the history of similar threats, known
 vulnerabilities, the attractiveness of the target, etc.
 Existing cyber security countermeasures for the zone or conduit being evaluated should not
 be considered when determining unmitigated likelihood; they should be hypothetically
 eliminated. However, the likelihood determination recognizes countermeasures that are
 inherent to IACS components and any non-cyber independent protection layers (IPLs) such as
 physical security, mechanical safeguards (such as, pressure safety valves) or emergency
 procedures that are in place to reduce the likelihood.
 Likelihood is evaluated twice during the detailed risk assessment process. It is initially
 determined without consideration for any existing countermeasures in order to establish the
 unmitigated
 risk.
 It
 will
 be
 re-evaluated
 in
 4.6.10,
 taking
 into
 account
 existing
 countermeasures and their effectiveness in order to determine residual risk.
 Consequence-only risk assessment methodologies may be used to meet the requirements of
 this document. These methodologies typically do not factor likelihood into the determination of
 unmitigated cyber risk and implicitly assume that likelihood is constant (such as, assuming the
 likelihood is ever present or quantitatively a ‘1’).
 4.6.6
 ZCR 5.5: Determine unmitigated cyber security risk
 4.6.6.1
 Requirement
 The unmitigated cyber security risk for each threat shall be determined by combining the
 impact measure determined in 4.6.4, and the unmitigated likelihood measure determined in
 4.6.5.
 4.6.6.2
 Rationale and supplemental guidance
 Determination of unmitigated cyber security risk is often accomplished using a risk matrix that
 establishes the relationship between likelihood, impact and risk, such as a corporate risk
 matrix (refer to Annex B for examples).
 4.6.7
 ZCR 5.6: Determine SL-T
 4.6.7.1
 Requirement
 A SL-T shall be established for each security zone or conduit.
BS EN IEC 62443‑3‑2:2020
 – 20 –
 IEC 62443-3-2:2020 © IEC 2020
 4.6.7.2
 Rationale and supplemental guidance
 SL-T is the desired level of security for a particular IACS, zone or conduit. It is established to
 clearly communicate this information to those responsible for designing, implementing,
 operating and maintaining cyber security.
 SL-T may be expressed as a single value or a vector. Refer to IEC 62443-3-3:2013, Annex A
 for a discussion of the SL vector approach.
 There is no prescribed method for establishing SL-T. Some organizations chose to establish
 SL-T based upon the difference between the unmitigated cyber security risk and tolerable risk.
 Whereas others elect to establish SL-T based on the SL definitions provided in Annex A of
 this document and IEC 62443-3-3:2013. Another approach, if a risk matrix is used (see
 Annex B for examples), is to qualitatively establish the SL. Starting from a reasonable
 estimate of SL (can also be none) the cyber security risk is evaluated by the risk matrix taking
 into account the countermeasures implied by the SL. If the risk is not acceptable, then the SL
 is raised (this means additional countermeasures are added) until the cyber security risk is
 acceptable. The SL derived from this analysis becomes SL-T.
 4.6.8
 ZCR 5.7: Compare unmitigated risk with tolerable risk
 4.6.8.1
 Requirement
 The unmitigated risk determined for each threat identified in 4.6.6, shall be compared to the
 organization’s tolerable risk. If the unmitigated risk exceeds the tolerable risk, the
 organization shall determine whether to accept, transfer or mitigate the risk. To mitigate the
 risk, continue to evaluate the threat by completing 4.6.9 through 4.6.13. Otherwise, the
 organization may document the results in 4.6.14 and proceed to the next threat.
 4.6.8.2
 Rationale and supplemental guidance
 The purpose of this step is to determine if the unmitigated risk is tolerable or requires further
 evaluation.
 4.6.9
 ZCR 5.8: Identify and evaluate existing countermeasures
 4.6.9.1
 Requirement
 Existing countermeasures in the SUC shall be identified and evaluated to determine the
 effectiveness of the countermeasures to reduce the likelihood or impact.
 4.6.9.2
 Rationale and supplemental guidance
 In order to determine residual risk, the likelihood and impact should be evaluated taking into
 account the presence and effectiveness of existing countermeasures. This step in the process
 focuses on identifying and evaluating existing countermeasures.
 IEC 62443-3-3 provides guidance on types of countermeasures and their effectiveness by
 assigning a capability SL (SL-C) to each system requirement.
 4.6.10
 ZCR 5.9: Reevaluate likelihood and impact
 4.6.10.1
 Requirement
 The likelihood and impact shall be re-evaluated considering the countermeasures and their
 effectiveness.
 BS EN IEC 62443‑3‑2:2020
 IEC 62443-3-2:2020 © IEC 2020
 – 21 –
 4.6.10.2
 Rationale and supplemental guidance
 The unmitigated likelihood determined in 4.6.5 does not account for existing countermeasures.
 In this step, countermeasures such as technical, administrative or procedural controls are
 considered and used to determine mitigated likelihood. Likewise, the consequences and
 impact determined in 4.6.4 should also be re-evaluated considering the identified
 countermeasures.
 4.6.11
 ZCR 5.10: Determine residual risk
 4.6.11.1
 Requirement
 The residual risk for each threat identified in 4.6.2, shall be determined by combining the
 mitigated likelihood measure and mitigated impact values determined in 4.6.10.
 4.6.11.2
 Rationale and supplemental guidance
 Determining residual risk provides a measure of the current level of risk as well as a measure
 of the effectiveness of existing countermeasures. It is an essential step in determining
 whether the current level of risk exceeds tolerable risk guidelines.
 4.6.12
 ZCR 5.11: Compare residual risk with tolerable risk
 4.6.12.1
 Requirement
 The residual risk determined for each threat identified in 4.6.2, ZCR 5.1: Identify threats, shall
 be compared to the organization’s tolerable risk. If the residual risk exceeds the tolerable risk,
 the organization shall determine if the residual risk will be accepted, transferred or mitigated
 based upon the organization’s policy.
 4.6.12.2
 Rationale and supplemental guidance
 The purpose of this step is to determine if the residual risk is tolerable or requires further
 mitigation. Many organizations define tolerable risk in their risk management policies.
 4.6.13
 ZCR 5.12: Identify additional cyber security countermeasures
 4.6.13.1
 Requirement
 Additional cyber security countermeasures such as technical, administrative or procedural
 controls shall be identified to mitigate the risks where the residual risk exceeds the
 organization’s tolerable risk unless the organization has elected to tolerate or transfer the risk.
 4.6.13.2
 Rationale and supplemental guidance
 When residual risk exceeds an organization's risk tolerance, steps need to be taken to reduce
 the risk to tolerable levels.
 Countermeasures are applied to reduce risk. Cyber security countermeasures may be a
 combination of technical and non-technical (such as, policies and procedures). Another
 means of reducing risk is to reallocate an IACS asset from a lower security to a higher
 security zone or conduit in order to take advantage of the security countermeasures of the
 higher security zone or conduit.
 IEC 62443-3-3 can be used as a guide to select appropriate technical countermeasures. The
 countermeasures identified in IEC 62443-3-3 have been assigned a SL-C rating which is
 beneficial in evaluating the effectiveness of the countermeasure.
 Users may also want to evaluate the cost and complexity of countermeasures as part of the
 design process.
BS EN IEC 62443‑3‑2:2020
 – 22 –
 IEC 62443-3-2:2020 © IEC 2020
 4.6.14
 ZCR 5.13: Document and communicate results
 4.6.14.1
 Requirement
 The results of the detailed cyber risk assessment shall be documented, reported and made
 available to the appropriate stakeholders in the organization. Appropriate information security
 classification shall be assigned to protect the confidentiality of the documentation.
 Documentation shall include the date each session was conducted as well as the names and
 titles of the participants. Documentation that was instrumental in performing the cyber risk
 assessment (such as, system architecture diagrams, PHAs, vulnerability assessments, gap
 assessments and sources of threat information) shall be recorded and archived along with the
 cyber risk assessment.
 4.6.14.2
 Rationale and supplemental guidance
 Cyber security risk assessments should be documented and made available to the
 appropriate personnel in the organization. Cyber security risk assessments are living
 documents that may be used for multiple purposes including testing, auditing and future risk
 assessments. However, it is also important to properly protect this information as it often
 contains sensitive details about the systems, known vulnerabilities and existing safeguards.
 4.7
 ZCR 6: Document cyber security requirements, assumptions and constraints
 4.7.1
 Overview
 Subclauses 4.7.2 through 4.7.10 describe the requirements for documenting cyber security
 requirements, assumptions and constraints within the SUC as needed to achieve the SL-T
 and provides rationale and supplemental guidance for each requirement.
 4.7.2
 ZCR 6.1: Cyber security requirements specification
 4.7.2.1
 Requirement
 A cyber security requirements specification (CRS) shall be created to document mandatory
 security countermeasures of the SUC based on the outcome of the detailed risk assessment
 as well as general security requirements based upon company or site-specific policies,
 standards and relevant regulations.
 At a minimum, the CRS shall include the following:
 •
 ZCR 6.2: SUC description (see 4.7.3);
 •
 ZCR 6.3: Zone and conduit drawings (see 4.7.4);
 •
 ZCR 6.4: Zone and conduit characteristics (see 4.7.5);
 •
 ZCR 6.5: Operating environment assumptions (see 4.7.6);
 •
 ZCR 6.6: Threat environment(see 4.7.7);
 •
 ZCR 6.7: Organizational security policies (see 4.7.8);
 •
 ZCR 6.8: Tolerable risk (see 4.7.9);
 •
 ZCR 6.9: Regulatory requirements (see 4.7.10).
 4.7.2.2
 Rationale and supplemental guidance
 Cyber security requirements should be documented in order to ensure the requirements are
 clearly communicated to all stakeholders and are properly implemented. The CRS does not
 need to be a single document. Many organizations create a cyber security requirements
 section in other IACS documents.
 NOTE ISA-TR84.00.09 provides additional guidance on the recommended elements in a CRS.
 BS EN IEC 62443‑3‑2:2020
 IEC 62443-3-2:2020 © IEC 2020
 – 23 –
 4.7.3
 ZCR 6.2: SUC description
 4.7.3.1
 Requirement
 A high-level description and depiction of the SUC shall be included in the CRS. At a minimum,
 the CRS shall include the name, a high-level description of the function and the intended
 usage of the SUC, as well as, a description of the equipment or process under control.
 4.7.3.2
 Rationale and supplemental guidance
 It is important to clearly identify and define the scope of the SUC in the CRS. This
 requirement ensures a minimum amount of information is provided. An illustration of the SUC
 and the associated data flows and process flows should be included.
 4.7.4
 ZCR 6.3: Zone and conduit drawings
 4.7.4.1
 Requirement
 The organization shall:
 a) Produce a drawing or a set of drawings that illustrates the zone and conduit partitioning of
 the entire SUC.
 b) Assign each asset in the SUC to a zone or a conduit.
 4.7.4.2
 Rationale and supplemental guidance
 It is important to have an overview drawing of the SUC that illustrates the zone and conduit
 boundaries and the assets contained within those boundaries in order to effectively
 communicate how the SUC is partitioned.
 4.7.5
 ZCR 6.4: Zone and conduit characteristics
 4.7.5.1
 Requirement
 The following items shall be identified and documented for each defined zone and conduit:
 a) Name and/or unique identifier;
 b) Accountable organization(s);
 c) Definition of logical boundary;
 d) Definition of physical boundary, if applicable;
 e) Safety designation;
 f)
 List of all logical access points;
 g) List of all physical access points;
 h) List of data flows associated with each access point;
 i)
 Connected zones or conduits;
 j)
 List of assets and their classification, criticality and business value;
 k) SL-T;
 l) Applicable security requirements;
 m) Applicable security policies; and
 n) Assumptions and external dependencies.
 4.7.5.2
 Rationale and supplemental guidance
 It is important to characterize and document the attributes of a zone or conduit. Each of the
 items listed in the above requirements has a specific purpose, as described below:
BS EN IEC 62443‑3‑2:2020
 – 24 –
 IEC 62443-3-2:2020 © IEC 2020
 a) Name and/or unique identifier – It is important for design and documentation purposes to
 be able to uniquely identify each zone or conduit.
 b) Accountable organization(s) – The accountable organization is the person, group or
 groups who are responsible and accountable for the security of the zone or conduit.
 NOTE The accountable and responsible organizations can be different. If so, they will both be identified.
 c) Logical boundary – The logical boundary is important because it delineates the boundary
 between the zone or conduit and the rest of the system. It also helps identify the
 demarcation point for all communications entering or exiting the zone or conduit.
 d) Physical boundary – It is important to document the physical boundary if the zone or
 conduit requires physical security to achieve its SL-T. If physical security could enhance
 (but is not required) the SL-T, it should preferably be documented.
 e) Safety Designation – It is important to identify if the zone or conduit is safety related or
 contains safety related assets.
 f) List of logical access points – Logical access points are any place where electronic
 information can cross the logical boundary of a zone or conduit. Logical access points
 need to be identified and documented as they may have vulnerabilities that can be
 exploited by threats.
 g) List of physical access points – Physical access points (for example, fences, doors and
 enclosures) are any place where personnel can gain physical access to zone or conduit
 assets. Physical access points need to be identified and documented to determine
 appropriate means of monitoring and preventing unauthorized access.
 h) List of data flows – In order to detect anomalies, it is important to identify and document
 the expected flow of data (for example, source, destination and protocol) throughout the
 system and, in particular, the flow of data in and out of a zone or conduit.
 i) Connected zones or conduits – It is important to identify the connectivity between zones
 and conduits in order to identify all of the logical access points into and within the system.
 Typically, this is illustrated in a zone and conduit diagram.
 j) List of assets and their classification, criticality and business value – It is important to
 identify the IACS assets contained within each zone or conduit and their classification,
 criticality and business value in order to develop an understanding of the consequences
 should that zone or conduit be compromised. When identifying consequences, it is
 important to consider the consequences to other zones/conduits as well as the
 zone/conduit in question.
 k) SL-T – The SL-T communicates the level of protection required for a zone or conduit
 based upon the results of the risk assessment. Refer to 4.6.7 for further information.
 l) Applicable security requirements – For each zone and conduit it is necessary to identify
 the applicable security requirements needed to achieve the SL-T. Some requirements may
 be common to all zones or conduits in the SUC while others may be specific.
 NOTE Security requirements specification cannot be finalized until after completion of the detailed risk
 assessment (refer to 4.6).
 m) Applicable security policies – For each zone and conduit, it is necessary to identify the
 applicable organizational security policies needed to achieve the SL-T. Some policies may
 be common to all zones or conduits in the SUC while others may be specific.
 n) Assumptions and external dependencies – Oftentimes, the security of a zone or conduit is
 dependent upon factors outside of the zone or conduit, such as clean power and additional
 layers of physical and network security. These assumptions and interdependencies should
 be documented.
 4.7.6
 ZCR 6.5: Operating environment assumptions
 4.7.6.1
 Requirement
 The CRS shall identify and document the physical and logical environment in which the SUC
 is located or planned to be located.
 BS EN IEC 62443‑3‑2:2020
 IEC 62443-3-2:2020 © IEC 2020
 – 25 –
 4.7.6.2
 Rationale and supplemental guidance
 The physical environment for the SUC should be documented in order to ensure the IACS
 assets are properly protected. Examples of documentation that can be used to communicate
 the physical environment would be site maps, floor plans, wiring schematics, connector
 configurations and site security plans. Existing security vulnerability assessments should also
 be referenced.
 The logical environment for the SUC also should be documented to provide a clear
 understanding of the networks, information technology, protocols and IACS systems that may
 interface with the SUC. Examples of relevant documentation would be network architecture
 diagrams, system architecture diagrams, electrical one-lines, heating, ventilation and air-
 conditioning (HVAC) hook-ups, fire and gas detection and suppression, and other relevant
 design documents.
 4.7.7
 ZCR 6.6: Threat environment
 4.7.7.1
 Requirement
 The CRS shall include a description of the threat environment that impacts the SUC. The
 description shall include the source(s) of threat intelligence and include both current and
 emerging threats.
 4.7.7.2
 Rationale and supplemental guidance
 There are a number of factors that can affect the threat environment of a SUC, including the
 geo-political climate, the physical environment and the sensitivity of the system. Examples of
 appropriate authoritative sources can include:
 •
 computer emergency response teams (CERTs);
 •
 ICS-CERT;
 •
 public-private partnerships such as ISACs;
 •
 IACS product suppliers;
 •
 industry advisory groups;
 •
 government agencies such as an information security agency;
 •
 threat intelligence services.
 4.7.8
 ZCR 6.7: Organizational security policies
 4.7.8.1
 Requirement
 Security countermeasures and features that implement the organizational security policies
 shall be included in the CRS.
 4.7.8.2
 Rationale and supplemental guidance
 It is important that all systems incorporate the baseline security policies established by the
 organization.
 4.7.9
 ZCR 6.8: Tolerable risk
 4.7.9.1
 Requirement
 The organization’s tolerable risk for the SUC shall be included in the CRS.
BS EN IEC 62443‑3‑2:2020
 – 26 –
 IEC 62443-3-2:2020 © IEC 2020
 4.7.9.2
 Rationale and supplemental guidance
 It is important that stakeholders are aware of the organization’s established tolerable risk
 level in order to ensure that the SUC risk level is in alignment.
 4.7.10
 ZCR 6.9: Regulatory requirements
 4.7.10.1
 Requirement
 Any relevant cyber security regulatory requirements that apply to the SUC shall be included in
 the CRS.
 4.7.10.2
 Rationale and supplemental guidance
 This is important to ensure regulatory compliance.
 4.8
 ZCR 7: Asset owner approval
 4.8.1
 Overview
 Subclause 4.8.2 includes one ZCR to attain asset owner approval.
 4.8.2
 ZCR 7.1: Attain asset owner approval
 4.8.2.1
 Requirement
 Asset owner management who are accountable for the safety, integrity and reliability of the
 process controlled by the SUC shall review and approve the results of the risk assessment.
 4.8.2.2
 Rationale and supplemental guidance
 Risk assessments are often facilitated by third-parties with participation by various subject
 matter experts who have intimate knowledge of the operation of the industrial process and the
 functionality of the IACS and related IT systems. While these personnel have the knowledge
 and skills to perform the risk assessment, they typically do not have the authority to make
 decisions to accept risk. Therefore, the results of the assessment have to be presented to the
 appropriate management with the authority to make such decisions.
 BS EN IEC 62443‑3‑2:2020
 IEC 62443-3-2:2020 © IEC 2020
 – 27 –
 Annex A
 (informative)
 Security levels
 IEC 62443-4-2 [7] defines SLs in terms of four different levels (1, 2, 3 and 4), each with an
 increasing level of security. SL 0 is implicitly defined as no security requirements or security
 protection necessary.
 •
 SL 1: Protection against casual or coincidental violation
 •
 SL 2: Protection against intentional violation using simple means with low resources,
 generic skills and low motivation
 •
 SL 3: Protection against intentional violation using sophisticated means with moderate
 resources, IACS specific skills and moderate motivation
 •
 SL 4: Protection against intentional violation using sophisticated means with extended
 resources, IACS specific skills and high motivation
 For SL-T, this means that the asset owner or system integrator has determined through a risk
 assessment that they need to protect this particular zone, system or component against this
 level of threat.
 SLs have been categorized by IEC 62443-3-3 into three different types: target, achieved and
 capability. These types, while they all are related, involve different aspects of the security
 lifecycle.
 •
 SL-Ts are the desired level of security for a particular IACS, zone or conduit. This is
 usually determined by performing a risk assessment on a system and determining that it
 needs a particular level of security to ensure its correct operation.
 •
 Achieved SLs (SL-As) are the actual level of security for a particular system. These are
 measured after a system design is available or when a system is in place. They are used
 to establish that a security system is meeting the goals that were originally set out in the
 SL-Ts.
 •
 SL-Cs are the SLs that components or systems can provide when properly configured.
 These levels state that a particular component or system is capable of meeting the SL-Ts
 natively without additional compensating countermeasures when properly configured and
 integrated.
 Each of these SLs is intended to be used in different phases of the security life cycle
 according to IEC 62443 (all parts). Starting with a target for a particular system, an
 organization would need to build a design that included the capabilities to achieve the desired
 result. In other words, the design team would first develop the SL-T necessary for a particular
 system. They would then design the system to meet those SL-Ts, usually in an iterative
 process where after each iteration the SL-As of the proposed design are measured and
 compared to the SL-Ts. As part of that design process, the designers would select
 components and systems with the necessary SL-Cs to meet the SL-T requirements, or where
 such systems and components are not available, complement the available ones with
 compensating countermeasures. After the system went into operation, the actual SL would be
 measured as the SL-As and compared to the SL-Ts.
BS EN IEC 62443‑3‑2:2020
 – 28 –
 IEC 62443-3-2:2020 © IEC 2020
 Annex B
 (informative)
 Risk matrices
 A risk matrix is a tool used in risk management to qualitatively determine the level of risk by
 assessing the likelihood of an incident occurring and the severity of the consequence should
 the incident occur.
 A risk matrix presents likelihood on one axis and severity on the second axis. The
 intersections between likelihood and severity establish the risk rank. The intersection between
 the lowest likelihood and lowest severity yields the lowest risk rank. Whereas the intersection
 between the highest likelihood and highest severity yields the highest risk rank. The
 intersections are typically colour-coded to indicate increasing risk rank with green typically
 being the lowest and red typically being the highest.
 While always 2-dimensional, risk matrices vary in size (for example, 3 x 3, 4 x 4, 3 x 5, 5 x 5)
 depending on the number of categories in the likelihood and severity scales.
 Table B.1 is an example of a 3 x 5 risk matrix.
 Table B.1 – Example of a 3 x 5 risk matrix
 Severity
 A
 B
 C
 Likelihood
 5
 High
 High
 Med-high
 4
 High
 Med-high
 Medium
 3
 Med-high
 Medium
 Med-low
 2
 Medium
 Med-low
 Low
 1
 Med-low
 Low
 Low
 A likelihood scale partitions the entire range of likelihood values into discrete categories or
 bins. Table B.2 is an example of a likelihood scale with 5 categories. This example
 demonstrates how some likelihood scales provide multiple ways of partitioning the data into
 categories. In this example a guideword, a likelihood description and a frequency scale are all
 provided.
 Table B.2 – Example of likelihood scale
 Likelihood
 scale
 Guideword
 Likelihood description
 Frequency-based guidance
 1
 Certain
 Almost certain
 >10-1 per year (High demand)
 2
 Likely
 Likely to occur
 10-1 to 10-3 per year (Low demand)
 3
 Possible
 Quite possible or not unusual to occur
 10-3 to 10-4 per year
 4
 Unlikely
 Conceivably possible, but very unlikely to occur
 10-4 to 10-5 per year
 5
 Remote
 So unlikely that it can be assumed it will not occur
 <10-5 per year
 Similarly, a consequence or severity scale partitions the entire range of severity values into
 discrete categories or bins. Table B.3 is an example of a consequence scale with 3 categories.
 This example demonstrates how some likelihood scales provide multiple ways of partitioning
 the data into categories. In this example a guideword, a likelihood description and a frequency
 scale are all provided.
 BS EN IEC 62443‑3‑2:2020
 IEC 62443-3-2:2020 © IEC 2020
 – 29 –
 Table B.3 – Example of consequence or severity scale
 Operational
 Financial
 HSE
Category Outage
 at one
 site
 Outage
 at
 multiple
 sites
 National
 infrastructure
 and services
 Cost
 (Million
 USD)
 Legal
 Public
 confidence
 People
 onsite
 People
 offsite
 Environment
A (High)
 >7 days >1 day
 Impacts
 multiple
 sectors or
 disrupts
 community
 services in a
 major way
 >500
 Felony
 criminal
 offense
 Loss of brand
 image
 Fatality
 Fatality or
 major
 community
 incident
 Citation by
 regional
 agency or
 long-term
 significant
 damage over
 large area
B
(Medium)
 <2 days >1 hour
 Potential to
 impact sector
 at a level
 beyond the
 company
 >5
 Misdemeanor
 criminal
 offense
 Loss of
 customer
 confidence
 Loss of
 work day
 or major
 injury
 Complaints
 or local
 community
 impact
 Citation by
 local agency
C (Low)
 <1 day
 <1 hour
 Little to no
 impact to
 sectors
 beyond the
 individual
 company.
 Little to no
 impact on
 community.
 <5
 None
 None
 First aid
 or
 recorda-
 ble injury
 No
 complaints
 Small,
 contained
 release below
 reportable
 limits
 Although some standard risk matrices exist in different contexts individual projects and
 organizations typically create their own or tailor an existing risk matrix. Annex B provides
 several additional risk matrix examples (shown in Table B.4 through Table B.6) to emphasize
 to the reader that risk matrices can vary in dimensions, scale categories, colour coding, risk
 ranking, etc. It is critical that the entity facilitating the risk assessment obtain the correct risk
 matrix that has been approved by the asset owner for the facility that is being assessed.
 Table B.4 – Example of a simple 3 x 3 risk matrix
 Likelihood
 Highly
 likely
 Medium
 High
 High
 Possible
 Low
 Medium
 High
 Unlikely
 Low
 Low
 Medium
 Negligible
 Moderate
 impact
 Severe
BS EN IEC 62443‑3‑2:2020
 – 30 –
 IEC 62443-3-2:2020 © IEC 2020
 Table B.5 – Example of a 5 x 5 risk matrix
 Consequence
 Minor
 problem
 (Easily
 handled by
 normal day-
 to-day
 processes)
 Some
 disruption
 possible
 (Damage
 between
 $ 500 k and
 $ 1 MM)
 Significant
 time and
 resources
 required
 (Damage
 between
 $ 1 MM and
 $ 10 MM)
 Operations
 severely
 damaged
 (Damage
 between
 $ 10 MM and
 $ 25 MM)
 Business survival
 at risk
 (Damage >$ 25 MM)
 Likelihood
 Almost
 certain
 (>90 %)
 High
 High
 Extreme
 Extreme
 Extreme
 Likely
 (50 % to
 90 %)
 Moderate
 High
 High
 Extreme
 Extreme
 Moderate
 (10 % to
 50 %)
 Low
 Moderate
 High
 Extreme
 Extreme
 Unlikely
 (3 % to 10 %)
 Low
 Low
 Moderate
 High
 Extreme
 Rare
 (<3 %)
 Low
 Low
 Moderate
 High
 High
 Table B.6 – Example of a 3 x 4 matrix
 Severity
 Acceptable
 (Little or no
 effect on event)
 Tolerable
 (Effects are felt,
 but not critical
 to outcome)
 Undesirable
 (Serious impact
 or critical to
 outcome)
 Intolerable
 (Could result in
 disaster)
 Likelihood
 Improbable
 (Risk is unlikely to
 occur)
 Low
 - 1 -
 Medium
 - 4 -
 Medium
 - 6 -
 High
 - 10 -
 Possible
 (Risk will likely
 occur)
 Low
 - 2 -
 Medium
 - 5 -
 High
 - 8 -
 Extreme
 - 11 -
 Probable
 (Risk will occur)
 Medium
 - 3 -
 High
 - 7 -
 High
 - 9 -
 Extreme
 - 12 -
 BS EN IEC 62443‑3‑2:2020
 IEC 62443-3-2:2020 © IEC 2020
 – 31 –
 Bibliography
 References to other parts of the IEC 62443 series:
 [1]
 IEC TS 62443-1-1, Industrial communication networks – Network and system
 security – Part 1-1: Terminology, concepts and models
 [2]
 IEC 62443-2-1, Security for industrial automation and control systems – Part 2-1:
 Requirements for an IACS security management system
 [3]
 IEC TR 62443-2-3:2015, Security for industrial automation and control systems –
 Part 2-3: Patch management in the IACS environment
 [4]
 IEC 62443-2-4:2015, Security for industrial automation and control systems – Part 2-4:
 Security program requirements for IACS service providers
 IEC 62443-2-4:2015/AMD1:2017
 [5]
 IEC TR 62443-3-1:2009, Industrial communication networks – Network and system
 security – Part 3-1: Security technologies for industrial automation and control
 systems
 [6]
 IEC 62443-4-1:2018, Security for industrial automation and control systems – Part 4-1:
 Secure product development lifecycle requirements
 [7]
 IEC 62443-4-2:2019, Security for industrial automation and control systems – Part 4-2:
 Technical security requirements for IACS components
 Other standards references:
 [8]
 IEC 61511-2:2016, Functional safety – Safety instrumented systems for the process
 industry sector – Part 2: Guidelines for the application of IEC 61511-1: 2016
 [9]
 IEC 62264-1:2013, Enterprise-control system integration – Part 1: Models and
 terminology
 [10]
 ISO/IEC 18028-4:2005, Information technology – Security techniques – IT network
 security – Part 4: Securing remote access
 [11]
 ISO/IEC 27005:2018, Information technology – Security techniques – Information
 security risk management
 [12]
 ISO Guide 73:2009, Risk management – Vocabulary
 [13]
 ISO 31000:2018, Risk management – Guidelines
 [14]
 ISA-TR84.00.09, Cybersecurity Related to the Functional Safety Lifecycle
 [15]
 NIST Special Publication (SP) 800-39, Guide for Applying the Risk Management
 Framework
 ___________
BS EN IEC 62443‑3‑2:2020
 This page deliberately left blank
This page deliberately left blank
BSI is the national body responsible for preparing British Standards and other
standards-related publications, information and services.
BSI is incorporated by Royal Charter. British Standards and other standardization
products are published by BSI Standards Limited.
British Standards Institution (BSI)
About us
We bring together business, industry, government, consumers, innovators
and others to shape their combined experience and expertise into standards
-based solutions.
The knowledge embodied in our standards has been carefully assembled in
a dependable format and reﬁned through our open consultation process.
Organizations of all sizes and across all sectors choose standards to help
them achieve their goals.
Information on standards
We can provide you with the knowledge that your organization needs
to succeed. Find out more about British Standards by visiting our website at
bsigroup.com/standards or contacting our Customer Services team or
Knowledge Centre.
Buying standards
You can buy and download PDF versions of BSI publications, including British and
adopted European and international standards, through our website at bsigroup.
com/shop, where hard copies can also be purchased.
If you need international and foreign standards from other Standards Development
Organizations, hard copies can be ordered from our Customer Services team.
Copyright in BSI publications
All the content in BSI publications, including British Standards, is the property
of and copyrighted by BSI or some person or entity that owns copyright in the
information used (such as the international standardization bodies) and has
formally licensed such information to BSI for commercial publication and use.
Save for the provisions below, you may not transfer, share or disseminate any
portion of the standard to any other person. You may not adapt, distribute,
commercially exploit or publicly display the standard or any portion thereof in any
manner whatsoever without BSI’s prior written consent.
Storing and using standards
Standards purchased in soft copy format:
•	 A British Standard purchased in soft copy format is licensed to a sole named
user for personal or internal company use only.
•	 The standard may be stored on more than one device provided that it is
accessible by the sole named user only and that only one copy is accessed at
any one time.
•	 A single paper copy may be printed for personal or internal company use only.
Standards purchased in hard copy format:
•	 A British Standard purchased in hard copy format is for personal or internal
company use only.
•	 It may not be further reproduced – in any format – to create an additional copy.
This includes scanning of the document.
If you need more than one copy of the document, or if you wish to share the
document on an internal network, you can save money by choosing a subscription
product (see ‘Subscriptions’).
 Reproducing extracts
 For permission to reproduce content from BSI publications contact the BSI
 Copyright and Licensing team.
 Subscriptions
 Our range of subscription services are designed to make using standards
 easier for you. For further information on our subscription products go to bsigroup.
 com/subscriptions.
 With British Standards Online (BSOL) you’ll have instant access to over 55,000
 British and adopted European and international standards from your desktop.
 It’s available 24/7 and is refreshed daily so you’ll always be up to date.
 You can keep in touch with standards developments and receive substantial
 discounts on the purchase price of standards, both in single copy and subscription
 format, by becoming a BSI Subscribing Member.
 PLUS is an updating service exclusive to BSI Subscribing Members. You will
 automatically receive the latest hard copy of your standards when they’re
 revised or replaced.
 To ﬁnd out more about becoming a BSI Subscribing Member and the beneﬁts
 of membership, please visit bsigroup.com/shop.
 With a Multi-User Network Licence (MUNL) you are able to host standards
 publications on your intranet. Licences can cover as few or as many users as you
 wish. With updates supplied as soon as they’re available, you can be sure your
 documentation is current. For further information, email cservices@bsigroup.com.
 Revisions
 Our British Standards and other publications are updated by amendment or revision.
 We continually improve the quality of our products and services to beneﬁt your
 business. If you ﬁnd an inaccuracy or ambiguity within a British Standard or other
 BSI publication please inform the Knowledge Centre.
 Useful Contacts
 Customer Services
 Tel: +44 345 086 9001
 Email: cservices@bsigroup.com
 Subscriptions
 Tel: +44 345 086 9001
 Email: subscriptions@bsigroup.com
 Knowledge Centre
 Tel: +44 20 8996 7004
 Email: knowledgecentre@bsigroup.com
 Copyright & Licensing
 Tel: +44 20 8996 7070
 Email: copyright@bsigroup.com
 BSI Group Headquarters
 389 Chiswick High Road London W4 4AL UK
NO COPYING WITHOUT BSI PERMISSION EXCEPT AS PERMITTED BY COPYRIGHT LAW