CHAPTERS ARTICLE 800 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS FOR WIRING METHODS AND MATERIALS
Chapter 8 Wiring Methods and Materials
® Conductors af the Same Gres. AN conduciors of the
CLE Same rah and Whee iscd: Lh EA conor and ali
ARTICLE 300 equipment groundng condueors ad bonding onductore
Ceneral Requirements for Wiring Methods shall be contained within the same caccway, conduit bord,
and Materials ausitacy gir, cable tray ables sly trench, cable, of
Sle oibermise perm accordance ih 300308)
rough (630)
S081 Scope cb Paralieiea salons. Conductors shall be peri 19
(As AU Wiring Insalluions This acicle_ covers general be rin in paral) In aecordaner #10 1G. The requis
requirements to wing methods and materials for all vieng mem to tim all ict Condueiors EMA the Same mena
islaliaions es more by odierarticies in Chapier 5 aunilary SING. cable Tap trench, cable, o cord shall apr
i Scparatcly to cach portion of the paralicia installation, and
8) Imegral Parts of Equipmen The ceguicements of this ie equipment grounding CRS shall comple ih
aie ar pot Intendo lo apps to the conductor that tori 330 51 Contos: tps. o ics made Hora para
dn negra pa of equipment, such ae motors, control eed conductor: shall connect 19 all conduttori th. paral
Moto control centers, oc factor sassembled control equipment (elsa ser. grounded and ungroundeg, as applicable, Feral
Tear laica Lr dia
3 Merc Desipatore and Trade Sizes. Mec dosigatori pion Coulucion medi in metic crus noi unde
and trat sises Lo coi, bg, and seceding and Eee per, mil in onl me on we
accessoricsshall be in accordance wil Table $00.1 (C) Ct rnd conta tr tons. Te ey alati tl
3002 Limiasons cht rom, nd oto phe, etl, and round
Cosducor hl coy ith JL,
(A Vonage, We methods specicd in Chapter 3 shall be N i
is for 1000 volts ae, 1300 vole de nominal. orbs whee not (2) Grounding and Bonding Conductors. Eguiproeni ground.
early Amica sheubero Chapter 8 They sali be ing conductor shall permiicd lo be pa outside a racc.
rae lor ener 1000 volts ac 100 volis de. nomi nal where ot Cable ssc in accordance wih 2501800) for
Pa pr aid ees in ai Ca certain caging intaliatione or in accordance with 250154
Exception No. 2, tor de tents. Equipment bonding conduce:
() Temperature. Temperature limitation of conductory shall wae Ta be onc i be sll an die asia a
be in accordance with 10.1 MA) vs in accordance sh 01058)
3005 Conductor. (8) Nonferrons Wiring Methods. Conductory in wiring meth
(4 Singe Contr sigle coc pected in Te Th $month ire
S101) shall nk be peeminca where intalicd a part o a [Un in dillrent camma, auslary guiors, cable tors
HO) shall nk be permit where inal tvenches, cables, or cod, sh comply vath. 5002008)
“ccogniscd wiring method specified in Chapicr 5 Conductor: in sage condcior Tipe MI abl with a nanTag:
Epson: tntiiduolcondurtors Alb prin phew slid a Rete Sova Shall comple wh £58.91. Condueiors of single.
“parate ume oto. todo wh 225. Conductor Tipe MC cable th a mnmagnetie sho shall
compio kh 440 31, 80116 ana #00 20087.
(9) Column Wich Pantibonra Encore. Whcce an audiary
Tile 300.1€) MeticDesignarorsand Tce Sine Sitice cura between: cometh pancboard and a pull
Te bo ma pul box cher neal temminatione, he
= Tie neutral Sonics of Greats supplica Ln the Panchoard
Derigastor Sue Shall be perminica io originate in he pull box
1 % © Conduciorsof Dilferem Sprems.
" È (1) 1000 Volts ac, 1500 vohs de, Nominal, or Less, Condluctoxs
I 4 ac and de ccs rated 1000 ssa, 1900 ofc. nea
4 Se lestshall be permined to occupy the same cq pen Wir
H li Slips ong Sener oe
i bs laion rating cil to at cast the maxima crew voliage
Hi È applica to any conductor nithin the endosute, cable, o att
Li y =:
91 3% sccondary wiring 0 elecuic discharge aps of 1000 solisac
ns i 1800 volts de. or Css, lt insulatcad lor the secondary solos
4 5 imelecl, shall be premio 9 Occupy the same lumi nale,
ti “ sign. of cule kghing enclosure as the branche
ee Le Trey neu.
neon ami ste md mein
roe [Er p—
Copp NEPA Foren use oe NEPA Free Aes GG Nt dr ai 40% our GHG Gr Gn
For vece Coa. Sears 10 rear AUTRE ue SOA SSA


--- PAGINA SUCCESSIVA ---

 ARNCLE OZ GENERAL REQUIREMENTS FOR WIRING METTIODSAND MATERIALS 5004
fai Noi Now L See RAMA) for Cam 2 am steel sve, scl plate, oc sto chp mt less than 16 mm
ch Fr, i nd in chaos shall be used to prover the cable of
foil Sr Nn. 2 See ERGY for phous OTS
rate and pat coi Exton: A tiara and mark sen plat es than 16 mo (in in.)

@ Over 1000 Volts ac, 1500 Von de, Nominal, Cenductorso hh Fal pois al on bras oon against wil or ino pe

Sica rao oves 1000 volts ae, 1800 volis de, nominal shall Motion shall be per atta

hot iy the rame equipment WER Chose. Gable, ot a

Caen With conduc of cieuks talea 1000 obs ac 0) Caves Tarough Spec kind Panes Desig vo Mow

1500 rd, oi, or less ls permite in aevardance (ET ET JT, SOR, Sm mote)

according thts applicable rcs,

300. Provection Aguina Plosicl Damage. Where swiect 10 (D) Gables and Racevays Parallel 10 Framing Members and

physica darmge, Conductor rcv and cabler hat be (0) O

hrc 4 uring Sips. In bh exposed and concealed locations

p where a cable o eva 5p wing method neal part

(A) Cables and Races Through Wood Members. Te itaming ember, Rich as fos rer, or is ar 1s

£13 Bored Holes In both caposcd and concealed locations, cae Patel 10 ureing step, the cable or racevay shal be

here a cable: of atwasaipe wiking method # nale i faces anid sctace
sape wing the cable or coco riot bes ta 32 rm (174 In rom. the

regi bored ks hs, Hr 0 wood members, pos 30 emi oles hap FE o for the

shall be bored so that the cage of the bole is not lesi than ile or stes are Wael lo penetrate. Where thie didance

S2 mm (I in.) rom the ods of the wood member. Where ranno! be reac, ine cable or caccia shall be proicetcd

{hi distance cannon be maintained, the cable of aces shall [5

3 from penciration br salle ox vcs oy a mel lie, ces or
be proceied from pencmraion by serena ar male br è ce COEN Ea lO mi Di erent by

PEE) oF shingle) at least 1 1am Oi ind nck, and of

Eppraprate engi and wih ml 10 conce the arca of the Epi No, 2: Ser plas, sora, on th quit shal not br

py ea ptt ed meal A ri id cont

Mg maAs out, dr dca tol bin

Eerrption No, 1: Sot plates shall nor br gd to rt vt metal PS ©

out ris mesa cond Ng PVC conta, TIC: or Exp No, 2 Por contezled work in fisted Bl, o shed

Predera of rr ga a gong mi

Dara small ov permessi a po hae em er ane

Exim No. 2 A lisa and marked ae plate ir than 1.6 on 6 fokdecatis In

eh tht mone qual o deter iin agin naif or Euiopiion No. 3: A tet and market sel ple inci than 1.6 son

or tenon sha be porti. la tn ch ia mates qual or ts on Sgn mail o

@ Notch in Wood, Whee there is objection became of TT nlite

king the building Sewcoce, Po coped and {E) Cables, Raceway, or Boxes Intake in or Onder Mew.

eg locations, Gablar or cones hal be portati to be  Gorngate Roof Ducking. A cai, ious or box, Insialied

Ridi etches in wood sue. os, Faces. a other wood In exposcd or conmeale locations under metal usato

Memben where the cable oF nay at That paints i ove shoe roof decking, ali be installed and supported so these 1°

tex from penetration br pale gr serena by a stori plate at east notless than 36 mim (1% in.) meaaued fom he lowest face

18 mm i in) thick and of appropriate length and with Of the conf docking to the top of the cable, acca, or box A

installa fo the arca of he Bing. The stesi plate hall be cable, oes, or box shall no: be metallo in concealed Ica

installed before the building finish i applied tions in metal eorrugaicd sheet eh ng Con

trption No. 1: Sd plates shall not br gi to prc gd metal formation] Noe: Bot de king orl le crt ur

fro ran eta conti AA cr sin repo diet be ia com ne ua dii Ario eal

a lim an a nr br a E oer ata

be i penale Sd don emf we.

Sim No. 2: A lind and marked eet pate bs than 26 on ok Menibrane ve ro alain merit

nn.) ich tht eile qual or bra nection aga mail or pon So. 1 ut we cond and norms tol con,

son rion shall pret. wh dvd sino ln on Fs and done, ull vor be

® NonmetalicShentied Gables and Electrical Nonmetalic impuro confi 300.408)

Tubizg Through Meal Framing Members Sion So. 2 The 5 son (1500) sparing dr nl ued sive

(I) Nope Senthed Cable. In both caposcd ard PAL her uf JAG Towed SAN a mine eh

conmealoa healione whee ont Sache cables pass Wek 30 mm (2 in coms st, masur fon ho top of cor

through chr aks or field pinco. co, ASA doo or ed Ag

boles in metal member the cable hall be protoctod be Uimcd © N .

bishing or Bed gromimets covering all metal ces Hatage CO Coles and Raceways real in Shaliow Groves. Cle.

a0 aman ming methods insalicd in a Gre, 10 be
uc een pening pen to on oe on CV ZTE sug, anne: Sg inia
cable. finish, shal be protected by 1. mom (i in) thick sec phe,
© Nonmetalic Sesthed Cable and Electrical Nonmetallic ce, or equivalent oe by not less than Sem (¥en) fece

Tobing Were nale or aren atc Peek to. pensiate pac for th Cl lngis of he roe whieh the cable or

Smale sheathed blo cecal nancial bing, a ecw is nell.

Es, NANA BL ECHRCAL CODE 10167

Copri NERA Forex uve use oe NEPA Free Access attori No! !or ai buo cor gang Gr anreng
Fa rans Goria: Soe oarS Jo Fear AUTRE ue COC SEATS


--- PAGINA SUCCESSIVA ---

pen ARTICLE 300 — GENERAL REQUIREMENTS FOR WIKING METHODS AND MATERIALS
Esoption No. 1 Sun plo, doe, on ho equivalent shall vot be coi by $054) to a point at least 25 m A 6) above
ete 10 ot Hg meal conditi, intermediate metal conduit. Tithe grade, In no ca shall he protection be coquitod 10
gia TY Ceti, FI or shed metallic ub. erceod 450 mm (14 in) boo finished grade.
Exeprion No 2: A figa and mared st pot than 16 nn (2) Conduriore Emering Buildings. Conduciori entering a
Cl) hic dial proosirs qual bes precios ago naif or building shal be prateeis to the pointof entrance
srr peririvation salt pa isa. 8) Service Conductors. Underground service conductors that
(©) Emings. Where ccevars contain d AWG or larger insula. S10 noi cca in nce And fr are bared 450 mm
ted rca conduciors, and thes Fonds enter a abit, a (1A in) or mare below grade shall hate het location deni
Box, an encionre, ot a faceva. prior to the etalon of ed br a vamning abbon lat is placed In the trench at ast
conduciore, the conductori hab be proiscied in accordano 300 mim (IZ In.) above th Lndetgroti na installation
with any of the following: (9) Enclosure or Raceway Damage. Where the enclosure or
©) An identifica fitting providing a smoothly rounded inst raceway is subject to physical damage, the conductors shall bo
ing stare saldi clocica mal tubing, Figi metal conde, mcr.
2 A listed metal fitting that has smoothly counded odes mediate metal conduit, RTKC-XW, Schedule #0 PVC cond,
8) Scparation from theAtingor acess uringan identified or equisaleni
fing materia at issccureh lastenod in place i
(0 Threaded has or hove that are an integral part of a (E Splices and Taps, Dircer uric conductors oc cables shall
cabinet, box, enclosure, or raceway providing a smoothly be penmkted to be spliced or tapped without the use of splice
Fade Hare ee Fro bons. Toe slices or tags Shall be made In accocdanoo ili
Toa
Conduit bushings constructed whol of insalating material
shall ot be nto oe ing oc ew The ng (©) Bd ac ht conti be cock, prio em.
Ting o Insalating material shall base a temperature rag SF cinders, large ar shale angube sbanco, or corrosite
not les than die ti temperature cing of ile installed material sali not be placid in an caavation there materiale
petali might damage raceavs, cables, Conduetors ar Or sibR UE
tute ar preveni adequate compaation of or contribute 19
(1) Structuni Jobo. lic cxpansion/dellecuion Kiting or crestor of taewari Gables, oF othr SPARK EE
er approsed means thal be used where a raccway eroe a
Smut imendod fo exparcion, contraction, or Acie. Here noccmar to prevent phys damage lo th cava,
tion, din buildings, bridge, parking garages or other strie bie x conductor, protect Sale proved te Foe
ever or other approved means
3005 Underground Unstallatione.
I — een cap, © Ramey Sale Condo cvs eh ati ic
(A) Minimum Gover Requiremena. Dircctburicd cat lire might contati dsc parte hal De sealed Pigg al
Soho air aap sak be Palo 10 meet the mini: cher dè bo ends Spare oie copays shall ira be
mam cove roquitemenis o! Table 300500). Scala. Scalants shall be Identibca for use ih ie cable Insula.
{51 vi Location. The. meron of endonies or acceags tion, sonductor inalation, bare conducior, shiek. or ife
nah underground shall be considerod to bea ket natin, | COONS
insulatcd conductors and cables installed in ihese endosures mio] og: Bese of hai. gue De caps
or mconap In underground insallatione Sh comple WAN anch ob ML de sedi ste urla ne
310306 ming bai
1G) Underground Cables and Condaciors Under Buildings. (É) Bushing. A bushing, oc terminal bring, wih an integral
Underground cab and conductors installed under a building bushed opening shall be uscd at the ond of a conduit or other
spalle in a mee races Uni terminate? unde Ea) RACES the CRANES of
aabicremerge ara Alec burla] fing method A sealinpe
xpi No, È Tye MI cate sh br perdtind unin a BAUS sing ine physical protection charade ofa hashing sali
tout tustaltation ry AT AEA i corr, AR, Or Re PE de Net ola Be
are sony ascondante wih 937 18) on wneud ne
her isa pried against pirsical damage and conmise condi. (lì Concuctors of the Same Ciruis. Al conductors of the
owen ods nih 92 10010) same cicuit and, where used, the grounded conductor and all
equipment grounding conductor shall be nstalled in the are
Exrption So. 2: Type MC cable lied for dest vil or comete et or able or shall be mali in close proximity in the
oat shal te Pra und a PEN vitto oR di are ont
Cratos in artorimee atti 230.148 ant in or locatoni 1
etre win 330 JAN) Exeprion No. 1: Conduttore shal pried to be nan ae
lis es, motor abl o tai dg Cer
(Di Protecson from Damage. Conduciocs and cables shall be Saba Eons aso oor Se ast e
protected from damage in accordance with HOADII) fos of te same crest, including quent Fang contin
Enough (00) aim sg oo ob sil È ed i ro
dl Emerging. from Grate, Becc-buicd condcors and 1 rach 0 ho sn ugh oct cable hr coms
a and eat n Con Tae polar] contudan rch, inetuding uit oun
of Table 300503) shall be protected by enclosures of racenass turbe.
Stoning from the minimum corcr AAAS be grade
re NMTIONALELEGIRIAL CODE ——
Coat NEPA For ent ve ue or NEPA Free Access stn Net fr as Buon Gu gian ar pnt
Far aa ono user roar om APS use coat RE


--- PAGINA SUCCESSIVA ---

ARTICLE 300 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS POR WI ING METTODSAND MATERIALS ss
130058 Mi ovr Rein 108 te, (500 eed Sait i Millmerra che
ETE
TR
Com cin] Rt | oe
ngs Bei | Beebo | Conf Co
re NCE i
post | ln | aa TE
prim Io Ol edb
coms | wim, | Mens | Beit
consi mgslicol un Posi | Mama | ostenta de
ped a Casi] og ore | a IE
deacon Samer | Ome | oredr | oe
cis or spss Cavie Pani: | em a | an a | aa e | mw
pon Sa 2: it pausa, tit, quand oir md 0 gi ee dogs 10 the cr) doco or to
Spin So fl po, piel, rnd E O pest dmg to eo
m8 pon rs or OHS RON Eo] Note Th si rs” sn afr
de as permite in 320. HHG), aad wher he conditioni of lie, expan ings in var seh fac PE
oe ee desma oe en Eb a a
Bah Moemen Meo dru cnr, pr
nah us he meen lene of,


--- PAGINA SUCCESSIVA ---

os AKIIGLE $00 — GENERAL REQUIREMENTS FOR WIRING METHODS AND MATERIALS
®0 Directional Boring Cables or racwars installed using () Expone 10 Sunlight Where exposed to sunlight, th mate:
diveconal acing. equipment shall be approved for he cal shal De ied a sunlight esa or shall ened ai
papore mig tan
3006 Propcion Aginsì Gorroson and Deterioration, Race: Chemical Expat. Where ute 10 exposure 0 cher
sap, cable taps, Sahl, sundae gutico, Cable amex, ca shen, por, pling. or immer ion, Feel or eni
Boxes, able Sheathing; cabinet. onchvucer folber ian ing hall is be heron cesisani lo chericale bcd on
reining (eee anti wale) Cbs. coupling. Hinge, hee Wing ox be Weed for Ihe spedite chemical agent
pore and support haa shall be of mate a tan
fo the environment in which they are to be inal {Di Indoor Wa Locations. In portions of dairy processing
for th hich they be installed facilities, laundrics, canneries, and other indoor wet locations,
(A) Ferra Mena Equipmem, Ferrous metal acousys, cable and in caine where walk ate freqocny mache or Where
tags, calcu, aunlany Eater, able aco. boxer abl he ate face of abiorbent material ach as arp Paper
sbesthing, cabins, nce oh han uous oF mood, the entre icing Aer. whee meal) Super,
Sl: Slows, coup, Apps, fingo, supports, and including ali bones, canes nce othe than rorourd
poet haraare shall be suliably protected gan coon ing ences and walk). mgs, aca and cable used hc
nf and cute excep had al Jie) by a coating of wih, shall be mond hat there dat cet 6 mm (Rn
approved rm nt material. Where Cocoon pe.  aisipace bee and wal or supporting surfare
Th ir necessary and the cont thcaded anmbere thes
than at the factory where the product is sted, the threads shall | EXPO Nonmeiaitic pacnuays, bus, arid fitings shall be pomited
a Be ll per Mano mht ops a cone, varo, tr, 0 51.
cesstant compound. dar su face.
ene Staton stre al vot de tet he pre com. OT Note IN ener, a whe te and ho
pte Slo st sh vb mee Nate Chai ed ed Eg prese sh tr
op Turon when woof dan Se sane
ect from Corrosion Eramel Whee ha ig son De ros In elim me
0 Proce fom Cordon Sony by Tame ore SME OT DT
a Te oT Cour ca) race imunoriuely adjeceni la sanbe ree ad samme perl aca in
Cor cable or cach, tla ur Cable am, e ac ee wd saints ress
boxes, ble sheathing, cabinets, enclosuccs {other than Tm When ca (ele oh nk chon
rounding (ereee amd nak. clos, couplngs, pps
Rim Sugars, and Suppo barare Shall mot bod 3007 Raceway Exposed Differ Tempermurts.
utdonre or in wet locations as described in 3A(D). {A Sealing. Where portions of a raceway or slceve ace known
8) Organic Cosings on Boxes or Cabinet, White bones, 10 be safc tocifccen mp rau and kere om:
AE, SE har Smeg over and ton knoe prolong of Du.
wall ove an approved sestem of organic coalings and ace ng or where passing from fhe interior to the exterior of a
raced Rais Ralnp mot or Guido: Type doy shal Babin, the cccvmy or Shee shal be sake to prevent the
be peemiticd auido deculaton of wae a 10 a code section of the acon or
eve ain shall be edhe ws i cai Meulalion,
8) In Concrete or in Direct Contact with the Earth. Ferrous conductor insubtion, a acc conducter, a shickl, or other
metal cara cable amor, boxes, cable sheathing. cabine, components An sao neon vel hal nol be etc lo
nce ore tha surrounding fonce and walk). chow, ie urges i
coupling». ripples. firing, suppotts, and support bardnate : ' )
Shall be pee to be installati conero, dec contact (Bi Expansion, Expansion Deflection, and Dellection Firing:
Sai che ran, or In tea suet to severe crn ipo Faccine shall DE proved wit expansion, expan
Shore made Fava appa for the condition of wes Section of dellection Rings bere Aeceary 10 Comper
provided with sortorion rection approved for he condition, Sale os thermal espansion, tf cin, and contr action,
(By Amman Metal Equipment. Aur cacenars, abl Berm Note Ko, | Table T2403) ape Tae $5349
e Maio ala Pro MA omo dote Ge pronte brespamio Hitachi (10)
: Bor read hemncog in tok BRC Ar
heating, cabins, encbutes ber hansuoundimglenems TE kd dcr
and valli, elbons, couplings. pple, ings, supports al lng copa enh da Tae SILA Dr HS
support ardware embedded oc encased in concrete oc in The cuctficicn of ca punskas for steel dearicd metallic hing,
AE contact wi the can shal be provided wih SUPPLE. mac met Sado ad AE Mel SW 9%
tar sonotion protection. NO" ooo 5 er a ko each Clo irene
© None Epdpmen. Koclle_ cusps ab Bene (00 0s pur Ta alal or
vs ca, ube pune oes, cabs a est “RTI ot ge
lic outer jacket and internal metal armor oc jacket, able ‘che ical metalic tabing Gun be detcrnined by maltipl ing the
sheathing, cabinets, enchsuccs father than surrounding fences caps kogth in Table $52.41) by 9.40. The coefficienti
and ll), slows, couplings, nippics, fitings, supports, aT copa Io ai cd Alb ho nad abeni
Fupport hatdwate shall b Made af Tica approscd lor the on gi mel wo 29 0 ONO pr ie
condition and shall comply wh SOA SICH) and (COE) 3 man Re n € tempera hang (L901 10
applicable io the spine mation “ooomi$ ia, per Sono or ea Fn perate
prone
ford No No 2 Se KES FB240-009 rr
Bua Di Stale hit vag 7
wim [pp
omy Fei a a NEPA Fre Acar Noi fr it tion cose cu rn
Fan Coo Ace Tare ateneo Use Corali SAS


--- PAGINA SUCCESSIVA ---

ANTILLE 0 — GENERAL REQUIREMENTS FOR WIRING METHODS AND MATERIALS s00.18
futher information on capanna cpio deletion  Esegpion: Th cfg support sn sali pried 10 support
fied rrr SANE aut areas Ap ware ad in

300,8 Installation of Conducors With Other Sys. Race.  aOrante iter Fin en nafs io
says oc cable mas containing electrical comfucion all na (Cy Raceway Cred as Means of Support. Raceways shall be
‘contain any pipe, tube, or equal for scam, water, air, as, dra uscd only as a means of support for other raceways, abies, oc
age. or any scrvicc other than clocrrical nonclectrical equipment under any of the following condi
300.9 Raceways in We Locations Above Grade, Where race HONS
cps are vali in wet ocatons awe grade, the interior of (1) Where the raceway or means of supporti identiedas a
ne cacca sali be considered to be a vet location: Inia: Mean of support
ted conductnrs andcablerinalicd in ace in met locations (2) Watts the ceva cortains power supply conductors for
abose grade shall compl seth ITC) elcetricaliy cortrolica equipment and ix used to support
00.10 Heed Soni of Mt Pca, Cable Armor, ass 2 0 Uhr 3 crc Conduciore or canes tha are
Eee oe) kl fo the pups of connection i the cprens
“endosures for condueioes shal be metallicali; joined togetter FEES ray ls used to support boxes o conduit
into a continuous lara Conductor and hal be conaecgd 9 ME the amar is toed to support bones oc cond
ic in accordance with 81423 o to apport lamine
10 al be, tings, and cabins to provide ices cial bodic in aecordarce a W123
continui. Unies specticaly permite che were in his Cade, i
arenas and cable ee shall be mechanical ecurod 5 (DI Cables Nos One as Means of Support Cable wiring rette
poss, ings. cabins and athe encloruros ie sll not be used as a cans of support for oer cables,
ace a nonciecusical pm.
Exception No. 1: Short sections of mugs used to provide support or Àà CPT
ion of ce aserite om piosical damage Aso ed $00.12 Mechanical Cominuity — Racevays and Cables. Race.
be mate nia onions. vani, cable armor and cable sheaths shall be Som
rcpt So, 2 Squirt nts btn, as prt PEC HIE, bones, conduit bois. ings, oc thee
SSA sh not be wind to de marty a vo hh
faci DoT support o
300.11 Secwing and Supporting. ems dicts ed pel temas Ace rgart
(A) Secured in Place. Raceway, cable aches, bows, abt,
scion No. 2: Runs and cables slid the bottom of aper
nets, and figs shall be secure} toned in place. datom aquipneni, such as mdicdboada, motor cosi yg
(È Wing Spuems ated. Above Spend Cei Jono pal moi ors, stati vor de aH to dr iA
frist ire: a do noi pid soci support Shall not JL dotte equipe
he ie support, Support wes and saga fingo that costes and Electrical Commi -
provide sects support and thatae installed in addition to tne 30043 M: rl and Electrical Contimuîty — Cor
Cellng grid support wites chal be permited ax she sole (A) General. Conducts in ramwaye shall be continuo
Support Where independeni support ics arc ud, thy sali between oulets, hse, devices, and so oh. There shall be no
be Soci at bo neh. Gables and raceways hall not be slice oc lap within 3 Gceway units permiied by J,
supported byccllingaride Toa. 7A, STA DA, 130 SARDA, SABA or SNA
(5 FuroRated Assemblies. Wiring located within the catityof (Bi Device Remo, in multe branch ccs, the
dà rte focecelling or roofs a5 cmb shall not be continu of a grounded conduce shall noi depend on
Socvuted1o, oF upp by. the celling assembly. including the el connections such as lampbolers, reotpiacier, and #0
olin Suppor sks An independent means of secure support orth where The cemosal of such devices would Ep! he
Shall be provided and shall be pernitica to be attached lo the continui
Seto Where, independent support wee ae used. they
shall be disingushabie by color aging, or othe afocuvs $4.44 Leogih of Free Conductors at Onilee Junctions, and
shall be igual by coos, egg, o ber Sic Poin: At least 190mm 8 in of Fees conhctor, meas
eR tom the point in he box here it emerges from fi ac.
Expt: he crding gpm? gum sali hr ried 0 suppone oo Cable seat, shall be ft at cach utt, Junction, and
rng and Amen 1M Moor Bon 48 di 9] prat ich point for Spc or he connection of luminaltes or det
pata cen. The 10 mr {8 In.) foce conductor shall be permioa to
Im Note Ser ASTM E10, Sn To ssf DE PRESO DE plc, Whee he opening oan ule one
tof Bano Comte end Mems for ne ateilodof sian, cach conductor shall be long enough to extend at ieast
dB ram 0 in) outside ibe opening:
@ Non-freRated Assemble. Wisin located wkhin the
Cav of a non ce rate fiooe Cellino: roof.celling sacri Epon: Conductore tet ar et so or ried al hr out
Shall mt be secured to, OF Supp by, Bg rh, Ctr. or noth point hall degen comp with 200 14
including the celling ruppori ter An independeni meant Gi 800.15 Boxes, Condul Bodies, or Fitingi — Where Required.
secure support shall be provided and shall be permed to be A box tali be ele at cach oie ana hich point for
nc he seems he independent SPREE oo re ca
exh hey hall be dininguistabio by olor, tagging. oF other
testes mare
destin ANAL EECA om
Copp NEPA Foren 0 NEPA res Access GL Not dr GH 10% our GHG Gr Gn
Fa Coo Ace, Tore a1 SA SEAS


--- PAGINA SUCCESSIVA ---

sans ARTICLE 311 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS FORMIRING METHODS AND MATERIALS
Fung and connector shall be usd cx wilh the spc handhole enclosures, except. whee connecting to chasial
to ets or wh 2c dn and linea Capt The pealadon hall comple mh Pat of Arve
Where the wiring method & conduit, tubing, Tepe AC cable, 110 for manholes, and 314.3 for bandhole endosuces.
Tope MC mb, Tope MI able, nonmcialic shealicd sabi, 300.5 Racewapor Gable 10 Openor Concealed Wiring
hl Shc comb ode ah SC cova hl on Pot A i sa 0
Sul or Sch pali, ote et sor tc ; I
junction point, conductor termination point, wiring method terminal fin faving a scparaicly bushed hole for cach
i Lod tox ton point, wiring E onducor shall be usi mberever a change Is made from
an Po or conductor pull point, unless otherwise conduit, electrical metallic tubing, clectrical nonmetallic
peemicted in 300.15{A) through (L). i ne,
abi, nonmetalic.sbcathet cable. ge AC cable, pe MO
(A Wiring Metis ith Inerior Access A box oc conduc SADE or mine aaliziolatot, moetalabesi eri cable and La ae
body all no be contd for cach IEE. incon, mich Eaton Ain 19 open EI or 10 Tera ko anh fue
SL icomimation, or out poi In wit mew meh A ing ua or the pups shall corta ap or
Eominable wer, sich as witesass, multioutit assemblics, splices and shail not be usca a lamainaite ues, A cont
ay quien and Sure cera The soi Sl he Hoy usca fo. Ue purpose shall contain no aso splier
nee ms anaton. te orp it SCH
(i Equipment An integral uncon box or wiring compart. (E) Bushing. A bushing shall be pei in licu ofa box oc
ment Far af apt ep pent shall be peomiica in lea coin whose the Soon merge from a aan and
cia box to Vem nate at equipment, Such as open eh,
Genelec control colpe or rr apne To
(© Provecion. A box oc cont bot shall not be cequicca Lope GPR, or sic couipeni, The
here able chit or ca from condo tubing dat raced Tring hal de of
pena pore cage ph ada il
A fiting shall be provided on the onde) of the conduit or 300.17 Number and Size of Condiriors and Gables in Race-
{bingo protect e cable fm abrasioni my. The rien and site of ohare an bit ans
{05 Dee M Catt bo or cont, bo Slt ro be eo the om
pricier cable cab mato daa to th conductor oc cakes, ocio the
{E} [megral Enclosuze, A wiring device with integral endosure Inforasational Note: See the fllosing seuiom of this Code
Genie fo: bi cht ht ec fen ct SS Et wn, 8
dedico to walls or ceilings of conventional onsite frame Wesible ml sont, SR igh lube oes
Comat To th Sorc am cable, ali De oe. Sth Sh MU, Bl ble sa
tists FR im we eon, Vas
Enia ama Le ine
Waning oe Sos 3MSONCH; MAIO, OLD Ss citt! imme, bo, S225 ind i a
FEVER 1 a Mc SAS el wh VLE Le ss
5 fin. A wing denis toe de use sll be permined MES Sn 9088 Tl vr TR ng
in New of a box or conduit body where conductors arc not dloet ren, 390,22, at: mire. 402.7: hors 520.6
spliced or terminated within the fitting. The fitting shall be ime OS UCI cheer: C2093, sti ins proven
eso. ar io Com aks i SS, sh, GAS le eps
tion ED TTR, GEES I
cs Bar cei oe Sy LEY siz TESA wpe
£6) Direa-Buried Conductors and Coble. As pormitied in Feed obs INELEA vein 268 3414): and ae Fer
SEI a bano cont bots anali nor he mle or api ed doe ELEM
Cesana ape ln deci ad cordura sand eabler ra
61 ted Devices As permed in SAM), a box ox Raceway rol
Cond body shall noi be requicerd for innate devices (A) Complete Runs Raccways other than bua, lic
cont body shall oy be cena fede arene n accordance vil Gdo ae
Sparc tamara hang bingo a emma covers shall De
© Enciomres. A ben oc cond bad shall net be required id cep Poe Gilet Junction, 0 sper pone
Meta pico sich. wre pal point mci or pron ia maa of caren or Cable Koes
Ct box in an loan oc Wo veut Gee Fete io aan ine Incl of won equipmieni,
Seti In He In a meer corals at permet oe cota shall be prince be lh len weno
Too in a kot con ee flrepniietytanisoliint didi
ie al be phe only bere pciaby petra icà
9) Luminires. A box oc conduit body shall no be required 2 3 =
where aluminaie it uscd asa raceway as pemitiod in 11161. in this Code for the applicable wiring method,
Sapo: store tins of vanno rd to conn socio cr
(®© Embedded. A box or conduit bod shall not be copied EPI Sort wins of xs wrt to cour cout
a ate in Te SA cal enti fo prion Jom paid damage Sl be
ELA, TD), TZ, 182A an AE POCA ue pi i ping
(Li Manboles and Handbole Enconees. A box oc condult
J —
bods shall not be coquiced for conductors in manholes oF lcd, or conmoceicd by welding to the acta unless specticali
om [ERRTp—
Comma EPA Free ce NEPA Free Access shar No: or rat isti Sou cao xs
Far Paura Ey ees,


--- PAGINA SUCCESSIVA ---

ARTICLE 200 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS FOR WI KING METTIODS AND MATERIALS sat
designe to be ox xh special preiid to be in this 300,20 fnguced Gurren. in Ferrons Metal Enconmes or
wr Ferrona Mei Racemae.

800.19 Supporting Conductorsin Vertical Raceway: 8 Conductors Gronped Togehar: Where conducts carey
: . ing altecnating ccm ate oslo er al snes
(as Spacing [mervals — saviano. Conductor in vertical
9 ton meal acer, they shall be artangod so su av
ceva shall be supp if the seal che escodi Ee me eto matal by imliiction To accorto
Sac Py Table AT Mito wp ed Shall be e Ri ll ie a cor ar e et TR amici
provided far cach conductor at the top of the vertical cami Conductor and all equipment grounding conductors shall be
a dose to Bop at practial moat support shall ordi anda
be provided as nocereary 0 limit supported conducior kngths SPC Igt
Bares tan bord pee Tom SIO. Epo Sia 1: Eqn qrounding condurtore or certain sing
“nsialiationi hol mee to be ld separi fo i a
Ergon: Std wie armor cable shall be sugporind al the ap of the icons her mn dn corde it
rist with a cable support that clamps the set wie armor A sity dci condtors wher rine with 250. DOC
ver hls pts ren of De i Aa the calar i Ecrtion Sia 2: A gr condudar ll be permit br stn
rot th pet cl i ta ar colte gp aon a and df 1 eating nh coed
tonal sed ie pons shall br rit oie i win 450.45 and AE AT,
on QUT mints coed tn xpanion of ite Cae WNT (by Individual Condariore Where a single confor acing
cto cof pace tg metal vii age prope
(®) Fire Resistive Cables and Comics. Support methods Ges, he Joins devi hall be mime by sitbe cult
and acing intervale for MCCAINS cables and contusions slots in the metal hevwern the indiidual holes tivough which
Shall compl wis any ciation: provided rr ie listino the the individual conto pass or puting all he condizione in
Charta drei procio Sear eel able ma hcl mh Tg wa fey ge forall o
ssd and i no care sali cx dhe salite TI SIRT te haere
+ Sappon Methods. One of the following methods of Evrptio In dle cs f crits pphing vara or chic
Support shall be used ng nor sn Cra apparati, da its at
San do sn hth int tg i om de puo
(1) Clamping dorices constructed of or emplosing insulating “dad ig
oa serie in the ends of the Tawa Wheng erm dw conductor am lr di tol das o pos hugh
lamping of ineulation docs not adequately support the Niel
Cabla the comductor also shall be Supe Cot oe: Been lain ws mes ge,
(©) Toei boxes ai nc oi eer in mich nt: ere Al PE o Being Ae Woe et a
ing muppore ate ah and cet In an approva carrera il be preci She uil mbe si ST magione
anne do Milan ihe we AE le nec E OE DEN rinato aL eid
aa ee e o pi oe Focolare Dara haha
©) In junction borcs, deflecting the cables not less than 9 590,21 Spread of Fire or Produas of Combustion. Elccrrial
degrees and carrying them horizontals to a distance not installatione in hollow spaces, vertical shafts, and ventilation oc
less than twice the diameter of the cable, with the cables it handling duete shall be made so that the possible spread of
bring carried on tw or more msulating supports and fie or products of combustion wll not be substantally
oral ned cotto bo Be mon [GS (Ld Opes arog Scena pemenalime ino 0
Where this metal we, abl shall be pporIE dat fr oma vl, past i eng
Inccale mca 0 per PR al eg pre me rn 1
0 Shrapproncd means
mtn Ne Di ies of ceil sation aie
fret andai eun lontano omai ma
fein e Ad
ftom ier et AS
‘Table 0.1904 Spacing for Concho Supporis
teen
Ain:
Coppers
Surponof
een nina Comper
Contenn Site session mn wm A
Crag ANG genera wm tw mm
SAM argh 1 ANG npn wwe 3m
LONGI WG Speen Bm ww
Baia Sg Boa Smpevedan Wim mw
Oer dren em] Smpevedan imo B®
Dermot Gru Phen] Smpeverdan mm dw
Sartrent Capen % wn ow
[——— Tn
Sommer NEPA Foren a use co NEPA Fre fess fr No! ra tin con cus rs
Roeser


--- PAGINA SUCCESSIVA ---

son ARTICLE 311 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS FOR WINING METHODS AND MATERIALS
Fy ma membrane FE
nda Cy ai wa Ioni arn DET Te pu
pric side oF the wal Skin 10 ogi wih the cmt the ae 4 ue eto rarer th lov ch
Ea ae a HEA de Bo puri e A ae REE
Ra a Jods
022 inn Duce No Osrafor i alin, Fist Spt Ti ce Slt toh to do ot ud pecs of
Dacia for Eniranmental Al ana itr Spaces For Ewen og nt so wn por mah ah pcs open
eal Ar (lena, To seguite men 97 Itis secuon hall bs 1.0 long dering.
he a and erat EPS SE (1 rt shes oe srg ode for tes pcs
od in dc ed fo du, one tock oe taper eat eal ab heed fo al snc
ce pecficaly berate for emaonme tal ais and ath roscoe fo pg
spaces used for environmental alc (plenum: in connections, Type MI cable without an overall none ale
a inerti animata emer
ety Ebi. ol tor ecb mo sooo
ing ge I
mc for Dati, Looe Stock, or Vapor Removal, Nos Sook ponce cable thai © sda Fe fo te thin
rota Ape shall be ped i duci wed anto Aran toc or etd profabcatod cable arsamblice
; i Foden wong ato mab Fells
cl, boove tock, na mmie spore. No Wiring SCM OTA cath, Orher types of cables, conductors and raceway shall be
type shall be installed in any duct, o shalt containing only such cmitted to be installed in electrical metallic tubing, flexible
Als, hd for vapor romonal or of vendlagon of commercial pried ro wo metallic tubing, flexible
docs. ue for vapor com i alias yh Ag meal
pe cooking equipe conduit without an overall nonmetallic covering, fies ble metal
(5) Duc Spray uc for Endronmenal cut hod Se, alare meta vo metal
Elms dover and tte Wang methode peaPed He soa wh a con
BE JR ele der ana olive conmmalli cab scova
RS da PSI i pur De ole and pp a Al de idaho
necesary to facilitate maintenance and copa, cndoscd smoke ar “at release properties.
Seep ines hal be premio oon SS CL 2048, i To or mt od Vie
a Sos rd Fore srs bog,
Only ising methods conising of Type MI cable withou an Te fn Does Pte nd Th dno nd
overall nonmetallic corcring, Type MC cable cmphying a bea release properties for nnmictalis cable te and aber
Smooh 0r corugatcai imperio metal rung ly Ul gi ag
pve ofiocl aii aihierki i beng vr la SR TH
SRE Wn mt nel a oF Bel SEE Pa De aa TA
a cere Abr io coed 2 Cable Tray Symes. The cequkements in 310 226C)(2) a)
instalicd in docs splay tabrcated te tenor entiron SU (CND I all appia do Tne EE)
metal ai. FexibE meal condi shall br pesmi, in 5 SER GL RE for anvironmental al BE
Kenge not to csecca 12 m (410, to connect phyla, J avesse pi
able equipment and dees permitted to be in thee fabbricate al Metal Cable Try Sysinms. Metal cable tray systems shall
hs TE connetto ect wih Tb metal cos sh
be paki 10 tupport ine Ming Metto pean in
indy chore ang openings the connection be pric se i
Epon: Wiring methods and cattng man, sd or se in othr (IO Slit Site and Botton Met Cate ry Sum Soli
ps used for entinamental ah (piovuto, salt br pomitiot feck and botiom meal cable ray scr with solid metal
eT EE Re
as nro a Iole non, Ee ian
(1) The wing methods or calling sims shall br periced only if Ne
necessary do cone to aime or drokes associated with the (8 Equipment. Elccrical equipment with a metal enclosure,
Gir action poner serch of ott a oF leva cpr wih oneal chro ied to
(1 Tg hong to ASL Sa ing spare ana having Ione ele and
feet ne Bear release propetta asd 2 oca ted miei sl table
(© Ot Sues Odo Enron air Pcs, Ta Us abet empties dle pred be lb
Cn hala io paces nat reels ac fo cm i
rea SEAN pcp hu Uso fo alt handing emit Sic See UL 2048. Par Tf Rent and Vibe
pee piena dhe secon dali apy AE eo De yt To no oni va
tig = of ping? the pre purpose of hich not fae pop Stereo ot cab
ax ns: it abun peak phd Gein of A af les an on erage
mio Noe No, Li The sp vt «banging od ma dono de Lr a
a Fant Varie dan cme He BRR
Pabst et fo ae st grid ie ints
avi nig ie
an Sano eLeGIAL CODE aretino
Copri EPA Free ce NEPA Free Access att No: or rat 1 Sou cao xs
Far Paura Ey ees,


--- PAGINA SUCCESSIVA ---

ARIICLE 05 — WIRING METHODS MATERIALS POR SYSTEMS RATED OVER 1900 VAC, 1500 DE, NOMINAL 3055
(Dì Information Technology Equipment Where th incl: Table 05.8 Wing Metros Permines for Urein Sysiems
bon commie wih the special requirements Specie in 643.4, Rated Over (000 Vota a. 1500 Yon de, Nominal
ect siringa mein area ena rte oe do
fresterhngich ptt cig SR ME errr vero
accordano: wth 61851) tor Une Above 1000 Vola
300.25 Pants Designed to Mow Ase, Caer dS OTe artes Referente
equipment eed heh panel Aged 5 allow accesi Pllc bre. Over om Ark SLA, at
Selling pence colline pune Jal be amanget amd tin od
Came i the rere of panei and acces o it cq barre ares
or sesta De loss Areas
3)
$00.25 Exh Enclonnes (Sue Towers, Where an ext chdo Tye fee orzo Ande ssa
sue ® required in Fav a Ire ewan Tang. my docs! Loci mei nero aes
ng mahi setting equipment pean he ai at
ig Bon dn ine exit entionire shall De Said Rn ih xertom jo
i est entire ph
Cots tide or Lom Arie sz
Excpton: Wir ss hing is vind on wide xm dom
ams pon tf measur. mio Mall de Bond 0B Bt ovo Arie ss
ain fm 1 inside af tte it tr atin ein
Domo No See NEPA mir, Le Sofri te pERO ie overiom NT
Fitts AAR tlm bing ox A
00.26 Remote Control and Signaling Cris Giassification Nudes pet axertom vik soa
arom con ani <gring Grins: shall De Goied Bon lo SE fn
either poser Te o ar med and comps math the Cobh ioni Anklesto
aa ” bo ii Mie
ie ISR oA cw ic viv
1 poveriimied seme cond and sigalg vay
creta ampi wah 2218 mtn mathe ovo pr
© Cle dan Com 3 power remo ord ant pti
Sing rests al campy win T2551 Ishi bin phe (80 Shoot Arial sin
3 Nope were and ignaling crews SERE Dee (Bem Mae
stalle elod scented SAN sigh
pl 05.4 Conductors of Differem Syn. Conduciors e circus
fuse mer 000 riti ge. 1800 vota de. Dominal, SI Dr
Tecupy tht same equipe wiring enclose: Cable, cen
Sith Crs 4 Gre ri 10 volto ae, 1500 volts de
nmin or ele pier ate permite dae Solionz:
0) Where container win the nit wring enclosure,
ARTICLE 305 primary leads rf lec atscharge amp bala insulated
General Requirements for Wiring Methods. For the primary witage of the ballast shall be permittee to
"and Material For Systems Rated Over ie mre, Sign, ao ang
1000 Volts ac, 1500 Volts dc, Nominal (2) Eacitation, contol rely, and ammeter Conductor use
Sn ocion setti any tal meer on starter Sah
$85.1 Scope. This article auvers wiring metho and materials be permite cups the same endure as ihe oer
for systems rated ever 1100 sets ac. 10 volts de, nominal ©) Conductorse diferent wiizge ratings shall be permitied.
305.3 Other Articles, Conductors shall be permitied to be in motors, transformers, switchgear, switchboard, contro]
heaton scenic ih an n The ng meno ident ms and similar equipment
Bertin Tames (9) TF ing comin nf each oer ta a manhole are perma:
Bent anti leche separaioa fo the comm of
apnea runs of Type MV cables, bare concurs, nt are Re me ys anti Satie ned tn cl mle
a be perc in ose cece eri In qual nr. her Spe Supp: conten of dillerent
Peri person sore shal be pennitiod tn be either aopper e soitage rating. Gan be perito,
quin
Contuctor having nastics insudation and eperaing at
Expo: Ad pu gin colte din seis is chat are ound dillerent vag Jog Sal Wk meus the Same ene.
pion and iat in matricot atipor lgitong vasti oe cum oy
pomdted a oxpocal cobirinstallarioni 305.5 Conductor Bending Radios, The conducter shall not be
mtd Nate: n compe © a comun Bn en ima ee den BB Be the merli dati der
BERL TTR ad SRS Tema me dow thn A time the moral dame fr
salle Shielded or lear-owered conductors during or after installa.
Bon For mdtioomduetnr nr mdbpierert iota
ses tiiion Stio ELZO MAL CONE es
Copp NEPA Foren use oo NEPA Free Access gt Not dr ars buo con GR Gr Gn
Fr euns Coa. Sepa Sa rear union dea ue SoA CSTR


--- PAGINA SUCCESSIVA ---

805.6 ARTICLE 195 —WIRING METHODS/ MATERIALS FOR SYSTEMS RATEDOVERI000 AC, 150 DE, NOMINAL
cables having individual chick conductor, the minimum groaning pi meeting the ceguicements of B40) or
Fencing rots shall be 12 times the diameter of the ids 550 (B31). Th chal be dios tio or invalid in ace:
ice cotacionar 3 mee ll camer, ahi saponified the use
everisgreater. @ Indoswial Establishments. In industrial establishments,
05.6 Protection Agi: Enact Heating Metalli catena here conditions of matinee and open ison eee ht
Srl assoctatcai comnts sali be Sano to void beati ols ited persons see etalon cable, nhl
ravens wi SPOT noc able: wih inilation pes up 0 J of
3092 or Sere, Sash oc le vl on Bre A al albe parita be sl
3 bones, ange ant similar enclozires 0 prevent accidenti]
conti vath CAFR parts of pinsical damage 10 pars or (8) Other Nonsbiekded Cables. Other nonshiclded alles not
ation covered In SSIS AND or (ANZI chal be nlc in cid
metal cl, intermediate metal Conduit, or AH hack
$05: Raceway in Wei Locations Above Grade, Where ac: cu, nemo metal con, or agit rns
Sata are inalitd in wet locations above grad, he imiior af US cont encase in not lese than 78 rara (3 ind of
hie rxconass shall be considero to be a er location. nuda. (BY Wes Locations. The inerior of cocks or rarcmari
coins an bl nal race in mei locations sake ground shall be decd bo a set location
Bow grate shall be cir molte pera ment bared condition and able installo in Toes ores
Sbeatbeor ata peer we in met locations creates test insallatione shall be hed tor tec
3059 Brit Covre Lined Conduciors — Expo Insul [ph A ana tali Sr miei, me
taion Exposcd rns of braided insulare odes Ze TE in an uretergrouna installation shall be
hal have lm readin hin, lt th conduciori need do Connection slice in an erg
not hase this protection, a lhme.cctardant saturant shall he 2PPI
applied lo the bravi coceding alter metalation. This Reale  (C) Protection from Damage. Conductor emerging rom the
Belt cosceing shall be Appt hack a sie destare a conduce: ground shall be clot listed scewag. Raceungs ished
toc terminale according to Opera voltage Where par: pols shall be of ml metal Conduit. ne gate metal
Sf gra PT Oi on ROS Se PR E aa ai sini
Eo Kiel of econ gro voltage of crank. oxening Worm th minimura occ dept red in Table
a So 1500 1 a point 28 m (LO shove finishori grade, Con:
805.10 Inmuletion Sting. Metallic and semiconducing Sry DULL 0a pini 2 m (410) shove finished grade. Cont
insulation sbiekling componcats of shielded abl shall be Sc Seis 3 building shall be protected by an approved
removal for a distance dependent on the circuit vollage and Solo ol entrance. Mero ditccibuded Toros cars,
Tr Sic onc mea Shall proven al ali POSI rng here recited condicio mea,
tcaninations of faciorya ppledshielding hat De elit to prevent damage the enched cond
sctallic shickding components such as tapes, wires, or lors or to the equipment connected to the raceays. Metallic
braids, or combinations of them, shall be connected to an enclosures shall be grounded.
equipment grounding conductor, an equipment growing (Dy Splices Direct burial cables shall be permitted to be
busbar, ora grounding clocirode. spliced or tapped without the we of splice boxes ¥ they are
$05.01 Mole or Mechanical Prosection for Metal Shratiea ASHI ting material kas fos the appBcation: Toe tap
he Toe sn split Hk be wate ig at pretecicd fr mecha
en rorceton ai mesure of Shp damage x damage. Where cables are kde, he shieiding skal be
ear, the Insulation a he onto shall be prove CoRR across de splice of tap
ba cable sheath mang device Speer pt nt par nti te
$05.2 Danger Signs. Danger signs shall be conspicuously Aur snglconducior (abs Sth mt ward tng torn
posted at points al access to conductors in all raceway rytcms phe shal be persinrd to be onerrpted and overtappert. Where
and cable systems. The sign{s) shall moet the coguirements in shields ave intivupted and overlapped, cock shield sation shal be
aa cable TT The td sad me es ai one pray
DANGER HIGH VOLTAGE —KEEP OUT (E Backfil, Back containing large cok, pacing materiale
“ Gere age or sharpy glo anes oh co ae
$05.5 Underground Installation. Gale shall ot De pic in an ncaa wes materiale can
{A} General Underground conductors shall be identifica tor damage or contribute to the corcosian of aways cables, or
the vag and condilons ander which they are balked OCC Simms oc where È might prevent adequate
Conductors used foc diccct burial applications shall be of a pe Compaction of il
jaenghea lor such ve Uniergoona afi hall be instaled protection in he for al granular of selected material or
in acordance fat 35 15). CANE), oF (AICS, and the suable eevee De provided lo present plmsical damage 10
insallation shall meet ie pth operas of Table ine moony on ble
Stn i
‘ ' (E Raceway Seat Where a raceay creer tom an under.
{1 Shikded Cables and Noosbiekded Cables in Mew ground atm ch sibi The biking shall be scala utt
Strath Cable Asscables. Unviergiound Cabos, including Sn ene compound to prevent he enne di mollare,
imnnsbielaioa, Tope MC and mosturtimpenviour metal sheath
Cable», shall have tosc See Geant 1 ugh an Seer
0m Sara ELENCA ODE Seveso
Copri NEPA For ext uve 150 NEPA Free Access attori Not dr ai 40% our GHG Gr Gn
Fr vreune Coa. Seed oarS 70 rear AUTRE ue Cora: CSTR


--- PAGINA SUCCESSIVA ---

ANTICLE 511 coNDuETORS FOR GENIAL WIRING sus
tami See Eom of boats om se pr specibea is and peel alana sali vl
sss mms o idee
(0 Sol A p——
Sd liar, Sd 10 12
the
n ARES a a 4, dey tn
mid sh, RAI RINO SIA II
ARTICLE 310 XUWN, THW, TUHW, TEN, THIN, service niranoe
‘Conductors for General Wiring Tepe SE Style U, and SE sele R shall be made of an
Tram ud DE sl el be mae ofan
pa]
pani. General ech lumini codon, inc copper cali
pon Gee i . For Per da sania, pli be copre dal
1 Scope The anil covers gol copies for a oe by Ete Snr e
a So Ti oe mn Sh gpm fo ld condo Ech sod rando cond
Pgh datas SC Toc alam ove af a oper amu conde
ampaciey ratings, and uses These requirements do not apply to aluminum alloy conductor material
conductors that form an integral part of equipment, such 5 (4) Copper dad anor conductor material shall be listed
I ar fo rT) a TUT, e
arpa ie ET ©) srt Cone ber elt in sve
be me, ners.
$10.3 Conductors. ally permite oc required elsewhere inthis Code to be solid.
{A} Minimum Size of Conductors The mimmim size of (Dy Insalaed. Conductors not specifically permitted clic:
conductors for vokage ratings up to and including 200 volis where in this Code to be cove rod or bare shall be insulated.
Thin 7 ngs sig ip to dng 2 oe
em 57 bit oe. 21088 for rie of esd
{8 ona Meta, Conduce in the are sali be o
Boo Mut, Comic i ade sl
FV Cover Requiremene
Gre
[Ghent | Gum | Comes | Comat | comes | comes
[rr py p—
[I RE IB Ed Cr
ite] Sa [sede Benne | safe Ti
vertu | BEANIE | gba | Gamay | sei | atom pol
| PG | mete | enn | poh
corse [on | a | wn 0 | om | n | ww | in [em | ow | ww | ow
Er
Sew Tow] w ww [wl vw] + Tw] wl mw] »
=
eT acme it.
sesta soi mm. cone im
Col EA coo NEA Fre Nr ost tuo” ose gua eranira
LE II me Ea


--- PAGINA SUCCESSIVA ---

sas ARTICLE $10 CONDUCTORS FOR GENERAL WIRING
Pari. Consiraction Specificatione The AWE size or circular mil arca shall be copeated at ner:
i pi vals mot caecoding O10 mmm (24 in). A othe mack gs Shall be
$10.4 Conductor Consiractions and Applications. Insulaied +o 7% SEAN DI men (4 nA othe
conductors shall comply sth Tabk AOA and Table Pd Je notexcocding 1A m (4010.
pte @ Marker Tape. Micialcoscrod muliconductor cables shall
nid Note: Thon. oli ato ion TY made tape locato vita the cable and ning or
temperate. bs han WE (FEY Theta aia complete lengt
one Aled al mid oe ere cen No. 1: Ty MI calde ht nt a te aj
hae reat wih mal prin fap pono. I: Tpe Mt cable hell a gui a mack ap.
os a Exeprion No, 2: Tipo AG cal hot qi amare tage:
8 Gri Coot co cv go SEE Lt JO epr
conductors shall be ident ict in accordance wih 2006. Tipe IC, or Tape PETC cals at tests wt set 10 m
(Bì) Equpmem Grounding Cancuctors. Equipment rounds (4060)
ing conto ball be identilicdin accordance SE ZOD. con So 4 Tre injoraationieguia in 10 BAI shall ri
(G) Ungrounded Conscrors. Conduciors that arc intended id be duratty masked on a roa cowring ane the metallic
fo ust as ungrounder conductors, whether uscd as a single Mah of Te ITC or Type FLTC cal af isvels not escending
conductor of in multicondarior cable, shall be finished to be 1-08 (401)
clacty disinguishabl (rom ground conductors and oP ymin Note: ed the oe of eta anerol
ment groundng conductors. Distinguishing marknge shall mgs Ton RE i ore So Benen
conflict in any mannee wih the sucace maki cone be Gue
SIAMBNI). Branch. ungrounded conductor shall be i
nid in accordance wih iC). Feces shall be Med. (3) To Marking The following conductors and cables hal be
ai) eke by mana ct ptt aco dhe coo
Excpton: Conductor idemapieation shall br pica i accortance
Erp oO Tipebi cable
(a am. €) swichboatd vires
$10.0 Marking (8) Meatcovercd, single conducior cables
@ Ipo AC cable
(A) Required Information. All conductors and cables shall be
marked to indicate the following information, wing he appi- (83 Optional Marking of Wire Size, The information required
cable method described in SILAS: in STAC 4) shall be penneted to be macked an the surface
Te mma calca vg dino a on odor Lo the ing Mu
2) The proper tipe ote of lettore fo the espe of wi or FOMduetor cables
cable ipealiedebebere in this Code 0) Tpeuceable
9 The manulaciurers name, trademark, or other ditinaine (2) Tip cable
marking by which the organization responsible for the (8) rigaton able
oduct can be cea dik: identified (1) Ponerimicdiar cable
tn Spe AC Hao cecula mil arca ©) Pover.Amited tice alarm cable
tution oie See Chace 3. Te , Connor Bree. 0) Mstrumentation ay cable
Uo fo ita npr 05 sr rims we CS Suffices 10 Designate Number of Conductor, A spe
i Re. late or laces weed alone shall indicate a singh insulaicd
(5) Cable aslo whet the neutral conductor is smaller Condor The letter ste shall be dicted as follows
than the ungrounded cond cto shall be so marked 0) D — For two insulated conductor laid parallel within an
i outer nonmetal vee
(i Method of Marking, 2) MI For an snc of wo or more insulated condue.
Q Surface Marking. The following condaciors and cables foc wired spirally within an tos nonmetallic cov
shall be durabiy marked on the surface (D} Optional Markings. Al conduciors and cables contained
0 singlocondueior and muliconducior thermoset and in Chapier 3 shall be peated to be sudface marked lo ind
ibeimoplasticansulated ire and able cate tpecial characteris of the cable materiale. These mack
© Nonmetaliesheathed cable ing include, but are noi limited to, mrkngs for limited
Semcon cable hake, sunlight cesistant and so fori
(4) Underground feeder and brandheiccuk cable
© Traycable
(© wagon abe
7) Pomc Emited icy cable
(8) Instrameniation ay cable
roma NAOSALELECTRAL CODE Sion
Coat NEPA For ent ve a or NEPA Free Access stn Net fr as Buon Gu gian cranny
Foun co Soe own 70 portera dea ue LR SSM ATS


--- PAGINA SUCCESSIVA ---

ARTICLE 3if —CONDUCTORS FOR GENERAL WIRING sua
‘Table $10.40) Conductor Application and insuiatione Raed 600 Yo
pa [ms stimarin
FEE ee
rot pod [evi ove rem
HEE aE EAE
fries Pcl nce Jat | sei a Ba lid
sn storia | omo | RA
pie ir | adi | O w
E UT
CTT Ai
ves an aston Le AL Coe om
Com Fore vane a NEPA Fre Access lattea Noi fr it tion Gone chr rns
Fa Coo ARS Tare ATE Cora SEARS


--- PAGINA SUCCESSIVA ---

sus ams sn —conouerons rox GENERAL wi
———
Maxon [ mootbmitm |
S| pee
JP = I = en vs
fomomisand res | soc Pieno Pemmnianio HR
== se El A E | E lux
mmm GEE
emette 0 for win [Reni Rey Fd w
Nermoplse J rl rr | pi wo
ET dal on | =
Fs BEE ow | om |B
—
Ue und footer | Soc fio Palla amick BMoianeo resina | tia [I Ge [mgd amon
pric | Cru I pc | E | E
fram
wn satova. nuca ctone Desio
Conn 0 rss 94 Fee stn i rs os rr
SE TR RT


--- PAGINA SUCCESSIVA ---

nce so commu rons fontENBIAL vie sus

Desio ato rame

ll E] mm aa.
AE po,
= C—O sw or ry zon » sce TL)
aor di | 3 ie
Sood winks [2 | frome ved ction | 14-12 an Efe

HE sides wie WO] E

Hi eee
Note Conn tors in Table $10.31 halle pe cnet ob Fut up 191000 ols ter and awrhert


--- PAGINA SUCCESSIVA ---

50.0 ARTICLE 310 CONDUCTORS FOR GENERAL WIRING.

Table $10.40 Thickness of Insulation for Nonabiekded Types KHH and RHW Said Dielectric

Ansulated Conchtors Raed 2000 Vos

PR Cotman’ Comat”
or eh om ma on
rn En m0 IE) w
i an pi iim E
Ps 241 35 JE wo
pe 279 Irs 2 an
syne 279 Ir} in on
vom i 12s rd ws
sn i in im =
E] i iin $50 na

Ton Arab a Re laica wr SER ap rarer

Cebu Bid lon hs FLA Er Shr em bt and

coi thet

Pan HI, lostalation stes 1/0 AMG and larger and shall be installo in accordance

310.10 Uses Permined. The conductors described in $104 with SIDI) through (GIA,

hall be permet fos use nan ofthe wiring melhods covered Expos No. I Conducars ic male ian 10 AWG shal be

in Chapicr 3 and as spedhed in (RK especine Tables OF as presi Ie. eh pack 0 SBE Conn oun To ARAN

permitedebewbere In his Coe Sterns, <omtaor, seas, sind, and sitar on ier

(30 Dry Lotions. di conto: an cables oc in (yf, YR 29 15 te, rt lf dost

dry locaons shall be any cf tre pes em in this Cade

(1) Tuo ate contained miti the same vary ctl

(Bì Dry and Dump Locations. Insulatct conductors and cables (5) irampacitr o) oh individval conturior 5 suffient cry

sce in dey and damp cation shall be Topo FEP, FIVE de rare bd ru memi shard (a ne paratie contain:

MTW, PEA. RIL RIM, RIM:2, SA, THIN, TIM, TIM:2, (3) The ourirurent protection is such that the ampacity of ach indi.

DUI, TIM, Tw, TW, XII Xi, use itu toute vi noi be nce i oo vert of ans

NIN XW, XIE, of ZI Wants os ee ako dso

(© We Locations. insulted conduciocs and cables 1600 In paagprioa So. 2 Under engirng suprisn, AVG and 1 AWG

wet locations shallcomply with onc of the following: qroundrd neutral contusion shall br porated o br intatet in para

©) Be maisturc.impervious metal sheathed del for existing instalation.

2) Be types MTW, RII, Riz, TW, TUW, TLwz, THIW, If oramaiond] Note Exception No. 2141 be wed 10 alleate
TIER Tine, XU NILO MONS SILE athens ed sop ios Sing ocd due
am aa on Ts rams nen

9 eof atype sted for uscin wetlocationa (2) Conductor and Installation Characteristics. The paralk kd

(Di Locations Exposed 10 Dire Sigh. Insubicd cond condaion that compaise cach ungroundel condcir groune

oreo ables bebe caporali eck i of the sin shall dol conduce, nebiral cond, SpE OMAR

Comply wih one of the lolloking: Conductor equipment ding jumper, of sippie side bonding

(1) Conductors and cables shall bo Hstedas being sunlight Jumper shall comp: wih all of the following:
nan tì) be the same length

(2) Conductors and cables shall be covered wih insulating (2 Const of the rane conductor material
material, such as tape or lcesing, that is od as being (5) Be the same og in ciecula mil arca
Smit ean, (1) Vo ihe ame naan pe

(E) Direa.Burial Conducrors. Conducnrs used for deer. ©) terminated in the same mannce

bua applications shall hata pe Keine for such ut. (®) Separme Gables or Raceway. Where am in separate

© Carosino Condigona Contacts oxo tu ole,  Cablesor matevass, ine cables or asa ah Conductor shall

PT ono Pe 8p 10 ave th same number of Conductor: an shall have the same

Raving a deleterioue cect on the conductor ar nsulation shall Call Bate Conductor arno pin dal cara

be ola pe suitable io he application, Cla be eid to ba the am phy

(6) Conductors in Parallel. (0 Ampaciy Correcgon or Asfaamen. Conductor naked

(ly General, Aluminum, opperdlad aluminum, or copper in paral shall comply ih SII (BJand (C1

circuit conductors for each ungrounded conducter. graunded (5) Euipmem Grounding Conduaiore Where parallel equi

conden or neutral conducioe shall be pried to be men panne comdaciore ale i (Ber ul he dis dn

connected in paralici (electricalte fined at both ends) only in accordance Will 230.22, Sectioned equipment grounding
Conduciors smaller than 1/0 AMC shall be per mito in mul
re NHN ELECTRICAL ESE
Coat NEPA For ent ve a or NEPA Free Aes psn No! fr ai Eno" ou Gian cranny
Far aa ono ae vietare To mp APS use coma ORE


--- PAGINA SUCCESSIVA ---

ANTICLE 10 CONDUCTORS FOR GENERAL WN: sa
comducior cables, i£ te combine circular ml arca of ie toc the requirements of AGI and ZIO for servi
anna oo O condito in sac able nate eh dan ERI oe li
frat ro die mi
(8 boing Jumpers. Whe para equipment bonding We ean ox amen aor ate coed by
me e talea ce dso or eye pep opr i ie
MEI IEA TI Th ee ea
ts pe
0.10 Sng ba vel Sri and Pees. For on frm Note No, li SA sed ae
ge Sint ard Prem Foes meet es ed
eo fa
oak bl py Email ue No, 2 See Dri mes Exe
lode Led analy dig

51012 Amps fo Coco Rate O Vt 2070 Yor,
For neal linge andl individual hig at
Ee peo ot oh Gomer,
Ee Dior Engosering Supeekion. Apacs coo
preomvings iol sbi pri Meo Eremo Sarge Meade La cone
ted to be sized in accordance with S10.12(A) through (€). in 810.15 or under engineering supervision as provided in
a1 Series For a onice cad 100 amp hog AGH
400 amperes, the service conductors supplying the onic kad otal Note No. 1: Sec 210.19, frfocmalional Note, for
assocato ih a nc amily cling, of 10 scevio conduciors sole drop on BE client hs eon mo
Spengo malanni fut ie ek ry
spp prom an pan lng ody Sede brad Se £
he mm es TET Ine
cating. If no aclisuncnt or correction factors arc required, Unformational Note No. 2: See NEEA 202001, Ebrinrat Sundar
Table 810.1244) shall be permitted to be applied. fa indusinat Mnchrnemy. Table 123.1, for the albwable amis i
AB) Feeders. For a fecder cated 100 amperes through te of Tope MIW ire
ot Tonnes pg Uh ente Md a Sec of Ampaciy Where ore thn one ampacty
ocr ih a one darmi» Ain, of to (ods conductors Ao get gin. the weston shall be ee
per A E
a aig a pti] Exon: Warm tos antes py fo prions of rit, to
mS tall oe mam dealing: ed sk sop
cating. I no adjustment or corccalon factors are required, he cimuit with lower anpariti dos not exe the dese of 3.0
Table 510.204) shall be permitted to be applica. {10 tor 10 psnt of the tot cit
nS ene: See MO48C for codino tempenaare
Cm eT Ee RE don ona
than that specified in SI AA) or (1), 8) Temperanure Limitation of Conductor. No conductor
“ conte i flim a: dii open desi tatare
0) Crome Conor, Gro comics hl be [OSES Bh Se pens meus
En at Ai fe oe nes
[reppin i
BCH 1020 Sg Pe DvligerierandFessen ape or he. oi of ina or Bo
se im me ne mb mun i
ies Somme ps er ped ba
ech core pe Jr A e En
I 3 DI ee er a i FS
J ? ” FEA Je pel ein
= va HA ie |
= un = a UN arene ine
E] " EH ETRE LAT A
rm
Col EA rr oo NEA Fr en es No ac guar er anira
Ln np cee


--- PAGINA SUCCESSIVA ---

sia ARTICLE $10 — GONDUGTONS FOR GERBRAC WIRING.

1 en baa goons — aac Col for lion roguitoneno. Sec Tale 2004, Tak
[pp a SAN IIa Table FAR 1 Table cori
atmo bea dpi © ambien Tompereeee Gormeton Puro.

ted bite fin 2 Be LOI ie CRIT STR

tore lniua bin of lemina General Ampacites fox ambien: temperatures ber tl

© a ao una tosc shown in the ampadie tabs dall be coveted
8 Enginreriog Supervision Under cnginecring supertision, accordance wih Table SP ABCBNCOEI) or Table SITA BOSCO)
Sit winery Sen SO UA
meansof Equation S17 11051 fim)
510.140 Bros!
1° [TZ o ampercs res EE
CALA “NTT
here
whee:
7. conducior teraperature indegrces elas CC pacity cocci for ambient temperate
7. - bent erp in degeces Celsius (°C) a a ™ TP
= nano 09 mn (1100! conto nic J mead doenin beable
oa temperature. Tm shinetleerand Te new ambien: temperature CC)
¥. component evidanc sling from incest T. - ambient temperature wed in the table (°C)
i, - ican thermal resistance between conductor and 2) Rooftop. For cacevavi or abl caposcd to diret sunlight
surrounding ambient ‘on or aban confope abete the distance abe the con to tte
a tor of inc mena or cable is lost tan 19 mm (in, a
31013 ampecity Tables. teroperature aider of STC (GF) shall be added to the
(A) Ceneral. Amps for condocior eater 0 ols to gutlone temperata to decane dhe applicable ambient
000 vole that be 38 speci in the Ampadty Table 319.16 temperate lor application ol the cottecon fates in Tab
through Table $10 21% modifica by 1015(8) through (F} S10 1508101) ox Table IO 1505162)
SMSIDIL Under concen pee on spaces of 0, Tipo i tod cots shall voi br satire io
genetal wiring teguisementi shall be period 10 be gece, Oh ampocE) adusarn.
ined by inter polation of the aac conductors tased On iol Not: The SHR Houliok — Fontan b
he conductor scuba marca en, emperaares mb Fn

“The temprratuee coreceion and adusiment factors shall be (©) Atjasamen Facvors:

permite Lo be applica to th ampaciy far the temperature
Caing of the conto, the coc and acd ampaciy (More than Three Garren Carving Conthstors, Tho
ping of he Conon, Lhe Eo and MAMLCUATEART ampacy of cach conduc shall be rouet 3 spon In Table
i pe SIMONI) where the number of curren arming conduc
tenminationinamondance wih 110 9(C) tori ln a raceway or cable excond three, or where single
form Note No. 1 Table 310.16 droni Table SQ.19  condueiors ar malcom ucior cables nat sia in racnas
fio io for socia delcnnining Sdn ate instalicd who, mamiaining spacing for a Contino

Enno TE FAR e je allea thou mata pacing fox a connie

FaN of et 23, mie fon Finn coiraion of Et longer a ao ie a e E

il he hog ondate of a parle ot
fa pp pa—— i

Roman Where conductors af dilletoni ics, as provided in 300.3,

1 Corda sal dra and pio crane pace Inala in a common toca or Cable, the adhere
ps factors shown in Table SIM ABCO) shall apple onl to the

191 Compl na th requitemenz of prods Nor ge of power ant ETE como

in Focale he ic bec of clad ints fal ic o,f eran Ae or tp
ee at add povere: me, ten ete sas

form Note No. 2 Se Glugter 2. Tle 8 Goon pet

ey forme 2 Ser 363% fmm Gr for

LT ate sod wn ioe oso ac ot hate co and boma Fk TA

Snir tr und TOTS) For adorn, Fann For

Ir ef 1003 epic of le privet

He con ara cob. Bee SI for Lhe pa te

sce. - (a) Whee conductors are stalled in cable tras 8920

Informami! Note No 4: See Table SHI and Table shall apPlE, tment factors shall not apply to conduciore in

SUE fr catino af one eg ad bs and Pr pment bia 0 conc

ets cis hc tb ovo mal ras hig a eh net exccoding #90 mim (24 in

SESE eh $4.15 4 he an de Lh i jen cio shall nt spol to underground

conductors Sng of lasing an outdoor trench 1 nose
mt p—
Comyn EPA Fora se use 0 NEPA Free cess form No! for si Eno" Gow guar ar gay
For ans Cori ser dieta ore To rear ATR 58 Coe SARS


--- PAGINA SUCCESSIVA ---

SEATS mn SSE

D1 seb Tme omatonFesanaracnsr'G GE

eet
PTC

Ambiect Ambiti

== =

nw = = a rr

4015 re Tete cet AT

Te ee SE

=

po a po

== ==

er me oe =

0 ! vin 00 rn ry ry x wea

BoC | TE |B B 8 | Es

wee! - - - pty py a N


--- PAGINA SUCCESSIVA ---

sas ARTICLE $1 CONDUCTORS FUR GEN BRAS WIRING
Sapo io 4 f ales eg vents in 10 ISCHIA) $10AS Apache of sed Conductor n Facevay Cable
17 gh (CHINA) wih mr he 20 capt coming coc. o Eats (Del Bur. Toe apace shale ss peck
oa lt og 003 (24) ot ang in Table $0 3m all af thx foloring con ap
ing. am seks o sip on Will mp, 4 GO port (1) cone vo ron sal
SR cata volt ihrough 2000 salta.
adycstment factor shall be applied. (2) Conducta are rated SOC (14°F), 75°C (67°F), or
Facey Spacing, spacing between cons shall be rane or Got)
Sn Sine e i © Wing irinaledin a 7G 0) ambien temperature
(0 Tote ate not more than thee cco caing conda
©) Bue or Covered Conductort, Where base ox once -
Conde arc pra oh ed conduzione the rnc i i
iure talng oi boo Sr io all De nas $1017 Ampegisee of Sage lune Conducrore in Free i.
the lowest temperate cating of the insulatod conductors for The ampactics shall be as specifica in Table 819.17 whore all
the purpose of determining ampacks. of the following conditions apply:
(E) Nowra Conductor, Neutral conduciori shall be consid. (4) fondatore ar ad volts rough 2000 sk,
crc ent arming in accordance wk any of he following: (©) COR are rad SON (10°F, °C (STE oe
{0 A noutral conductor that carrics only the unbalanced 8) Wiring irinsalled in a 30°C (AF) ambicnt temperature,
auttent from other conductors of the same circuit shall ha Ee Su tees!
not be required to be counted when applsing the prov 310-18 Ampaciies of Insulated Conductors in Raceway or
near Gable. Tot apc ah be as pe in Take $90
{2 (na Snire circuit consisting of two phase conductars and where all of the following conditions apply:
mel condo of ot, Spi, Some (1 Concer are med O volt eng 2000 ols
stem, the neutral conductor caries approximate the 7) Conducta arc ried HC (EF), 200 BOT), or
uc he pacer kh enon o the rh
other conductors and sta be counted when appling (8) Wiring is inatatied in a 19°C (II) ambient tempera.
SiS hee
Gna tule phase me deci whee the major portion (1) Ther are no more han these omen caning conc
orb ot cone of ac load, cro ore pi
dc promt Sn the eal Conductor: the rl cone
tor shall thorcfore be considered a currenicamying 310-18 Ampacities of Singh Insulated Conductors in Free Air.
Bley The Spaces shall speci abe 31019 vete ali
oe senting co norton, 1 Cling cons apply
©) Grounding or Boning Conductor. A grounding oc :
ing conductor shall not he coum wher app ine pros 112 Sanders ate cad O vole ough 2000 sls
sone of 819 15101) Conducts acc ated up to 50°C
(9 Wem male in 4 WC A) ambient tempera
Tile 10.1510) Adfutmen: Excos fo More Ton Tiree
bie S101 di 51620 Ampaciss of Conduriors Suppor on a Messenger
Cur ring Cor The ampactics shall be as specified in Table $1020 where all
TTT ole oi coon sp
ra Oo Tough Tbe 1) Gonduciori ate calca volts hough 2000 vols
Number cf siga AeA 8) Conductor are cate 15 (187 Th OTC (157)
fecoitel Tempermre sf Nesesan (5 Wiig de installed Ina AOC (D1) ambien epee
146 Ed The
x " tn Tht ae no mre than he stint conc
50 FI
pe © On Ampaciies of Bae or Covered Goto in Free Air
3140 » The patie all be di pci in Table 3021 bere all
sl ade 4 oC Rein coin sp
refer CRT ee I ©) tei stia mane € sc)
pena or ok Dog ec ie count Et ot ul donano tempera.
arc nn mi $0 LF) Teco iva re
er eco odode) Siig inal ina 4G CIOTTI abit tempera
purty 9 fa ie installed ina 10% UOTE) amen tempo:
ame J Ap —
Cong IEPA For ere eo NEDA Fre Access lat Re fr a into So sao cen
For Paura a ee ee To er no on SATS


--- PAGINA SUCCESSIVA ---

ARTICLE $10 —UONDULTORS FOR GENERAL WIRING: sun
Tile $10.16 Ampachies of suited Conduciors with Non More Than Thee unten Caeying Conductors in ceva able, or
Earth (Direcily Bored
Rm Goto Iseo Team
Scum | weueTh | wrcusen | wCuarn | Cush | wean
Types TOS, sa sis
FEF, Fern, ul PFA, Types 72S, 5.51,
Types RET, | ROS, RW THEN, TRH Tw,
Tl Ten, | © Tel Diva Types wo, |e TENS,
vn | Tis, USER | TRENO TI, | Re, RET USE:
saw, | on ated, Tie, |,
ase, | a ng, Saw | swan,
Sue | DoT, Ue | ENI SUN. tos | mom, UP | oi USE | SNE RN | gue awoor
ead | comer | ALUMINUM ORCOPPERCLAD ALUMINUM eit
ue - DI - - =
pr = [ z - =
pa » = = - =
[3 Hi H [e = i
I i » 5 © I
fi i ES i hi fi
© Ra » EI 0 ©
i 4 5 a E i
H fed HI 5 4 H
: i » wn :
i pd si wn It i
7 ts [E Tw wi Tr
2 pi id i go Ev]
e pi Bd E ui i
an 5 mw sn Es pr
E] E I By To ER Tw a
sco I mw = pi 2 a so
3 E slo A 2 EI E 3
pi E 3 5 ES EA Ea pi
a Ed 30 = 2% sio Sa E
we 0 aa 26 su we
se Yo bid =
To pi pd E pe he
so pr pi bd pi so
E] i ES bid pri id
Toon i wi ww we Ed ian
20 4 i pi pia pa pa 2
ian pi ed n Ra so 4 id
[I a a ni RI ss pr Ji
Ed fA bd A a PA ss 2000
[os
LS 10 HY «ul be (ctr et fn of fos heh ambient getter han 0 CAE),
50 ho ACO) shall De med fo te hen hr remo note
$ Salon U0 LIE he rete ah ot orion oom
"sella a0 HD hall rrr Atos ont veers kaon esc i voit hemlet be Cale
ses bn NATAL ELECTRA LO ow
DT pTe——
Fr euns Coa. Sepa 70 rear AUTRE ue SoA SSMS


--- PAGINA SUCCESSIVA ---

soa ANTILLE 810 —CONDULTORS FOR GENERAL RING
FT Conductorsin Free Air
TTC E RNA
[wcuwn |iweasrn | scosse weuwn | wear] scuse |
ES I perish 5
ea ,
fe AE mT,
pep, | “ERE am | To n
Dp | I mm ume
AT Te Thr SEALE
sero] Tea ue | aio | SERE | ree | Sm | OU er
MTT we CZ]
Fa = [” 2 = =
EE - H B = -
FA i Hi - - -
we me io in a [I
FEE i [A FA a
won| = ® io E 5 in
wom ow bd E E pe n
FT 5 E sa =
mim | E H FA Fi FH El
nl nl = » = » pi »
a or po -
= al 2 a în e
mile) = a a »
be a ES E
ml | ow jd o Fo =
Col EA oo NEA Fr es ci cn, eranira
LE A en tp cee


--- PAGINA SUCCESSIVA ---

ARTICLE 310 —CONDUUTORS FOR GENERAL WIRING sa
Table 516.18 Ampaciie of Insulate Conductors with Not Mare Than Three Current Carrying Conductors in Raceway or Cable
Tempatute Rating of Conductor See Tobe S10. 4000
BO CGIE wrcmrn | acero ICT
Types FEP, FEPB,
pez PFA, SA Types PEA, VE Type z
NICKELOR | ALUMINUM OR
NICRELODATED | COPPER CLD
Sine AWG or kemid COPPER ALUMINUM | Size AWG or hem
1 “a " = mn
© iH La » i
1 5 RI “ 1
Li EI #s 57 Li
© 5% ml wr 7” ©
a 0 1 ne 4 a
3 rd Ire 166 ws 3
? 10 wt 191 wt ?
' we 17 5 vs '
vo a El El 9 vo
#0 1 0 EI [a wn
3 ee Ed so I 3
0 we su 6 0 iY)
Seti 310.480 sil be referemat apn seo tors hes the bins estar her than SG { OEY
2 Sh S10. LHCR 13 si be refered far mt he re remain Contos
5 Suton 0.18 hdl be refered for stor of one.
Table 316.19 Ampaciies of Single-Insulated Conductor in Free Air
Tanpature Ratingof Conducroe [See Table 310.611
cern | mrcown arc wore rn
Types FER,
Typez | em pEASA| Tper PAM, TFE Typez
ALUMINUM OR
NICKEL OR NICKEL | COPPEECLAD
Sine AVG ce hem ‘DATED COPPER ALUMINUM Sine AWC cx hil
m a E - i
© pi » 7 e
1 pr wr 63 1
È ra ji WB È
© 15 16 5 ne ©
1] 1 = e Ir i
H an me 27 io 3
2 2 E sai 1 ?
\ 3 sa wn E h
A E [I Er [I
om so 67 3 wn
| 151 3% 8 so
1/0 5 Ey #0 1/0
LSet $10.80 sil be crc apo sion Eons mere the bien ienperatare b her than AVG 4 OEY
2 Sein 810.19 had he referemed for ons nf ine,
etn TONAL ELECTRA COE =
Comyn NFPA Soren ane as or NEPA Free Access piaticem No: Gai 10m Gow gag oping
For runes Cor” user Gr pacr3 “oneri Lnauhan zen L8@ COE SSaIDATTS


--- PAGINA SUCCESSIVA ---

suna ANTILLE S17 CABINETS CUTOUT BONES, AND METER SL KET ENULOSUNES
Dt 1038 anpacticrot Condunorsana Messenger
[sea wow | mewn | sewn |
TE Ton etm
Finn RE uan un
ama, | moo sam nale | pps ma, | aay
[pI ISLE tae | aan
aA rE Tame | TR
suacaioni [WER MUONUM ORCOPFERIADALUONI she ccm
A 2 Fi i E i
i È a = E pi
0 = m0 sa to
E = E = E
» 2 = i E
» li i J
2 5 i J =
= @ % A i =
i se da IH i IA
E» & % i = I
9 a pi = @ I]
Coron: Sone a: ob mit 10 et
ARTICLE SI bt
Cables, Cutan Bones and Meter Socket ems se pecan sme
Endlosures 312.3 Position in Wall. [n walls of concrete, tik, or other
es RAT De cons ee
omnmbal mei, chic dl be pled babe
pani. General Jo Re ctl
SUL Scope, This anice cove he installation and corer. DUES material, cabs shall be lsh wh the finished
tion specications of cabinets, cutout boxes, and meter socket “FACE or project thercfrom,
so ely nlp: opto sot SDA Repaling Nonrombassble Sufices. Nonabustible
a, es debe in e i DONA e er
ow fre hdr
ot rp cr Sla Loon. my cx. wt ors eee BE Er Eo ae
ULE Dorp te Lor, SA ew
placed or equipped so as to present mosturc or Water from $12.5 Cabinets, Gutom Boxes, and Meter Sockei Enclosures.
Entering and actumulating within the cabinet er cutout bex Cable sxeerminkes amt insalated conductor crn endorares
Seal mgt ee ee Bo Qin pers Shin shonblram mbit cco, epg nde:
a eg Sr ante o ol acl lle prs
hunt codons and el ge i gene Pi si
Dont For enclosutes in we locations, racewavs ot cables enter (AL Openings to Be Closed. Openings through which conduc:
Tog above the level of uninsulated le parts shall use fitings Or enter shall be closed in an approved manner.
listed for wet location. {BY Metal Cabinets, Cutom Baxes, and Meier Socket Encio-
i, Sh So
om RO
Comp ec NPA Fe centr es cnc, ceparies
LE A en tp cee


--- PAGINA SUCCESSIVA ---

Tibi 510.21 AmpackiesofBare or Covered Conduriorsin Free Air
TT asa eee wer
Be 0 Coved 00000 Bw 0 Coed
For or ow oar
oh age lewd awe oh wpe beak awe
I os x (es I m nN mn
: 2 : i : % : pi
: 2 : pd : 2 : ha
H i : i : in : a
ve in 1 EI ve E] va i
vi ES I pA EI 2 IA EI
Va = ve pi vo 4 Vo fod
pr] pA in 5 bi FÀ 4 i
pi pi a jo Ys Ys je
te = E în EH pi EH ji
n in » Jd Ra po Eo [4
EI pi E is me = me iu
pi i ES ua ne = oe pa
oo i I > fed sa ord pi
z z z z E od pied I
- = = = pit sn > a
= - = = Ri on us Prd
= = = = n on io A
= = = = Ed too si» n
= = = = E ha a Ed
TTT
ae tal vt msec suppor wing open wiring on seed ami, rts far me cables nl in a
insulators. a concealea Kooba sue weg, conductors shall men wn
es Ensign ot in der orto Eh Sms NOD mt ons and enduro br
bl ab ese For fo ax elo moos on apn So. 2 Sagl conto: ad ma pei
Gun scr to the enclosure rep permed da ie with 752.464) o (5)
(©) Cele. tess cable bs, ach cable shall be sca S128, Deflecuon f Como. Conductor exis di
tne cabs Cao bo. o mater es thet conduct ents o kat ain, cunut boxer, sod
Carpion No. 1: ths sith ins voli sh tor)
Ent e fw eb bron: von dln ser dn rans for matr cals oi
rhino hn 0 ae non Sr ied pc wars or et lin st
a tn sit oh de lg on, Frio
(1) Each cable bs aston within 300 mm (12 in}, messiond along 43 Width of Wiring Gamers. Conductors shall not be dell:
frig ied afin + cabo? or cau don arie a quite hv 3
races exten eva the enclosure an nat width in accordance with Table A) is presi nic.
(2 Ti ma] cs dy doe esr and ds BHO ONG ail be Fasi
Rok te mme di sb be
cates) from abrasion and de fings main acs afer (By WireBending Space a1 Terminals, Wico bonding space at
ten Cah Tem IS De pete seconde wi BIZ A)
(01 Trova sir pd ther end ng gp nn
oy pe a ot toa vt di 10 Co
pe dl) Conductor Nos Entering or Loving Oppose Wall Table
(3) Th cable heh s continuous through the accu and raiends  SIZALA) shall appb where the condutior docs not cer or
Tales conten gh e aad ee mag te nak appr aL
Re ai Bn asd ai altr pe in or
ert wis plete avi ©) Conductor Emering or Lea ing Opposi Wall, Table
(51 Gan ito ot bg hsb dv mt IEELEXED) hl app he condi docs nc oc
it To et on og i
ang mms Table 10 Coif Cok ard al gh Exim So. 1 Wa edison eta di vel and rma
os rt 0 yo Ctr ake vemonr sot SI GIA comin ht pret
tin rr lume an ro he eet pe avan pini
: toe tonto ome te octane 60 gt on
ml Ye Sex Gur 2 Te | hg Ko 3 comb an olmo rnc
rT CT CA AS STEN ice atu tht wt ot coos io Table 12.60 2) fo
esa NAY EEA cone 10451
Copri EPA Force ce NEPA Free Access att No: or rat 1 Goes xs
Far Paura GOOSE NET O Or A Tweets


--- PAGINA SUCCESSIVA ---

site ARTICLE $12 — CABINETS, CUTOUT BOXES, AND METER SOCKET ENCLOSURES.
‘Table $1248) Minin Wise bending Space Termin and Miia Wich of Wiring Guners
Campa Sevres T 7 > 7 7
pres sys
ay Contr
MMOs concn iene mm in mm mom = mm mem om
Tw we Np = = — = ZIO ZIO ZI
i & wow - Z ZZ IZ IZ ZZ =
py oy ZZ ZI - - = =
Fy fr Fa
i 20 Be sr
r= wan ms wm 5 m7
3010 em i BE n n
‘0 Bo. Mm H&B oo mm sm = I
preach oa wr 5 mo homo ow 3
100-100 Pa mmo ox om bow Bow ow
pried wom mh mem om ow Be homo ow
oom E TT TE <A
wom 125 FA
1200-2000 n - o-oo o-oo
Fai
ÎBeming space at icnninds sha be scasared ina siraighi inc fina ic end fe lug nr mare soaestoe fin the direulbn Ut bevi Ino Ue
erm red it noon.
ans be tot solder i reso fo sanded lamina mas nics
mln alito ng AARON Chel at shin hc ar acres ah SO 345 Th
Javea ric har rh
Exton No, A contacio not bg thn 950 end shall br 1) The ak of sh condor insaliedatanzeron ection of
i io ie at an esi. containing is a meio the sing space docs nor exceot 10 prem of the cove
Sars) cag th wal apposti ti rnin, provided Tar distante precio ptt
ton 3 x iad a apporio ld ot hm hn pcos 23 Toe val acc of all condition, plc, an ape installed
te 312 GA) and he semi e a rc no et lag ai any es section a te wh space does Pe ened
md engine won de rel Siro che oli dp perceni ol ovo arca di a
e Tol boning space or sondern 1 ANO and larger
1) ieri toward the oping in the enchsure and within a complics with $14. 24A) (2).
(1 uted sd th sping fe co (A whining label corpliing wih 1102108) is applica to
(2) Diner facing Ge rucioiure wall and of not prat chan the enchsuce that identifies the dosest disconnecting
SO perc of ti bring space speed on Tale 31 5644) means for any feet rough conductors.
§ (8) Power Monharing or Energy Management Equipment.
Enformatinial Note: Offi i the distance measured dong the { A nergy age: pr
enchoare wall Fann ie axis of the centerdine of the termina to The pe space rendo for mitches or overcurrent
eg ev oF en Tei cox hall be pein to coma pr monitoring o coor
Laer Fon * managemeni equipment in accordance with BEAST]
(GY Conductors 4 AWG or Larger. Installation shall comply "OVS (8308),
scita 300140 + Identification, Power monitoring oc enetgy Management
apron had these Pen heat a Held abe acs
312.7 Space in Enclosures. Cabinets and cutout boxes shall Gy as part of the lito cquipment or be a Ested kit cvaluated
pane approved Rami accommodate all conductors installed for fickd installation in switch or areca rent device enclosures.
in to iho Eom
$128 sich and Overcarvem Device Enciomures. The wig Squpmeni ai any tty ion of ine web space sal no
Space whi endosures lor sdtches and cream Aedes STE ata as recon ofthe nrg space ha
35 sade or es ad acu gis a i
Graton for specie cqupraent de provided in SIRIA) and (9) Concur. Conductors used cacy for conzol ar
(sì inzicamentation ciecuite bali compl wih cher BZ ROS)
spl ana Fee Tarough Conductor, The ta) or IC
@) Syn Tape, and Pot Tarmgh Conoco The wing OG Cocos shalcompl viti 7.19,
spacc af enclosures for switches or guerauerent devices al th) Conductors smaller than 18 AWG, but not smaller
pete for conducts feeding emugh, splicedì of OPP an 22 AWC fo a AE: Condi and 26 ANG for a mal
i or rls chen or contacior able. shall be poe to be ured wets the
om [Ep
Cor NPA Fei a ai NEPA Fre Acros cu rn
[EAR eet El de AAR


--- PAGINA SUCCESSIVA ---

Tate 312,6(BX2) Minimum Wire ending Space 1 Terminal
Wines pc Termina
WieswaWCokentt [UT ws eben
Competed
pret yroesng
some: | “ReyCoutucon
coem | Se Rosi PR
ry 2a Sete, EE
¥ 5 sel ta ZI
è H fn o ZI
5 H fd HI ZI
3 i ps 3 = IZ
H [I I si = IZ
i Ex ta 4 = =
[I a0 pr a ww aw 1 =_=
2 3a i i 12 i wom | ZZ
i 2 uo AE AE “| = =
0 E I Li be n | e owe | ZZ
EI sa wwe | ae we | 2 oe | mw
So n E (cl Be de | ome om | Wow
3% po wr 4 wow sa is | sa ue
seo in pes is woo se ie | VS
on 007% pa pi sele wen |e ow
wo ey a i wo pa Jr se
id on wo w wow wow | Ee ow
E = pi ta ww wow |e 2
[a wr w ww wa wm | aww
om an © wm om Woon | wow
fre pi H © 2 w ow
[I i ES z z z z
Gin io 5 - - = =
Ji Gio H = = = =
E] Gio 5 = = = =
=
Being space a tid sil be ret ina igh En fs the end ofthe sc ction the
cuban mal
2 Fre ema aim kis vare in eet rl mete, being spe shall be pernici be redocedby he lang ober of
rib
rap
rive
Semin
rani)
Aramis)
Thm shall e pitt 0 deine Uh cpt evn yc ne res indir cts dee
OD RE arc ming AMO sede clic tate aleamimam al codardo ama aria In merda ati SO. MEL
conductors and cable assemblics meet all of the foloving 812.40 Serews or Other Fameners. Scrcews or other faeries
conditione installo in the fel that enter vicing spaces shall be a prone
dbo tpecitica by the manufactures or sal corp with
(1) Ate enclosca within maccwapy or cowed abng one of or pl
moc walls of the enclosuce and fccured at iniceiale hay the following applicable
do nol cxseed 259 mm (19127 0) Screws shall be machine ype with bunt ends.
(2) Ate seco aithin 250 mm (10 in) of terminatione (2) Cove ences salt have bluntends
©) Ace sceurea to prevent comact ah current carrying (3) Seow oc other fistencrs shall xen into he crckosuce
components within the ancl na more than 6 mim 1 in) unless he ent Is protect
(n Ate cated fo the mem voliage and not lese than sith an approved means,
600 vs
(5) Have a minimum insulation temperatute ating of SG Fxerption (Sus or iter ons shall permits to card
e Pe ns nto the conn vot vane hn 1m Ca tn) ind matin
312.9 Side or Back Wiring Spaces or Guners, Cabincis and 13 um (ind of an oslo wl
Cutout bones shall be provided with back icing spaces, utc,
ig compariments a coke by $2 1013 and 0)
estar NATION ELECTRA CODE 0-108
Copy REP Foren se use or NEPA Fee cess am No! tr ars sn our cn eng
Fone cor Soe own 70 reporter dea ue LR SSM ATS


--- PAGINA SUCCESSIVA ---

S100 ARTICLE $11 OUTLET, DEVICE, PULL, AND JUNCTION BOXES
Pan. Construction Specifications or, or partons xing from the bases of the devices
512.100 bases Cabins, cout bose, and meter soc SOI in the cabinet, 1 the doo, frame, or es of the
enelosures shall comply seth 12 100(A) hich (0
(A) Metal Cabinet and Coron Boxes. beta enclose win Se SUSE Ts Sar gr and stein comp
the scope af this article shall be protector both inside and Gue ide Cues costola ong cout dial eer hs cabinet Toy
ouside against corrosion. posto a e devi Ar Lemina
® Seng, The design and consuetion of endosures rally emlore bacon sms sell be provide wi
OT Tn STI TO i cr ch cs ub poi wth
Steen and Big. consid of shoet sec, the Meal oc by SISI and are expert wir hos art open
thickncss shall not he Krstban 1.35 mm 0053 in.) uncoatod. pali e provided uk coven to complete the ensure, Where
(©) Nonmeultic Cabinets. Nonmetallic cabincis shall be space is provided for [sc through conductors and for splices
lsc, or they shall be submkted for approval prior to installa. 25 COUCH 812, adeitional barriers shall not be ceuieca
tion $12102 Doors or Covers. Cabinets, cutout boxes, and meter
SULLOL Spacing. The spacing within cabincis and cutout socket cnclosuresshall bo eauippod vith donor concrs
oes shall corp seth 12.19 ILA) through (D).
(A) General, Spacing within cabinets and cutout boxes shall
pride approved spacing for the distribution of secs and
Cables piatta in thors ane fora separation berwecn metal part
Gf devices and apparatus mounted within them in accordance ARTICLE 314
ith 312 DIANO. (CE, anc (ANI Outlet, Device, Pull, and Junction Boxes;
«0 Base, Other than at poinis of support, there shall be an ‘Conduit Bodies; Fittings; and Handhole
altspacc ol at kat 19 mm (006525 IN) bencen the base of real
The device and ine wall of a metal cabinct ar culo box in utes
chi he desco is mounted
@ Doors There shall be an aispace of at kast 234 mm Pani E General
(100 in.) between any live metal part, including tc metal 314.1 Scope. This artic covers the installation and uve of all
partsof endoscafuses, and the do. boxes and Conduit ccs ue as outlet device, Junction, ar
Ecoprion: Whe the dani ied with an appro inslmting mate. Pub BKC, depending on thle usc, and handhole enchsures.
Td on of a (obs of metal mt los han 236 mm (05 n.) Cat metal, shoot metal, onmeta lic and other bes such 35
vented, ais pan shal nor be less han 12. mn (0 300 in) FS, FD, ana larger boxes are not classifica as cont bodies.
This article ales induder inallon roguirementi for Wings
(8) Live Parts. There shall be an aicpace of at least 12.7 mm used do  cavonaps and sr Font moar and calce lo
(0.509 In.) been the wall, back, gute partition, [oF metal bones ris sone bt i
or door of ary cabinci or kot box and ie nearest expose
Camentaroing part of devices munich thin the cant 3142 Round Boxes, Round bos shall not be wed where
ice he volge oc noi exceca 4. This paci shall be Conds or connectors requiring the ue of locknuls or buh
ineeeasoti to at least 51 am (100 In) fer vollager of 281 to ingrare lo be connect to he site of the box
1900, nominal. $14.5 Nonmeilic Boxes. Nonrmetalic hos shal be pert
Esraption: Whew th conditions in 12 HO MANZI, Exton, aww, tegt only with open wiring on insulators, concealed knoh-and
eget for vomit sls pom 231 d0 000 ht primate dò tube ring, cabica wiring methods si enticely nonmetallic
a o heath. lele Sot, and nonmetallie accasa
(8) Svixh Clearance Cabincts and clout boxes shall be Exes No. 1: Mar naa boding means re provided roe
“rep enough to allo th closing al he doors when Blampete dI moss, Noun ows shal be prata o be usa ut wil
Branch lak parc boata sich are in any poo, den Tor matalamordcable
combination alto Ache apn 0 eh it von No 2 Wom it boning sees ich a provison fo
gh ihe tc open ea hk Rion Spd eT SEE Ml de ber ER
pe tm Sr enti dn nw vs 1a for pupa
€) Wiring Space. Cabinets and cutout boxcs that contain Nousialli ius Tl bryos io e ud th ural econ
ices of apparatus connected with he cabine! os box to Metalaraogd (abe
mote than ghi condaciore including hose of branch hess, 14.4 Memi Bones, Seal boxe shall be grounded and
etc loop eo cis, pont cicci, and lar CIC rd in accordance ih Fas LIV. VI, VIL ana X of Ari
Bu ot lig te soppli ct ora condauation diereof, die 230 as lab, exe ert in 0.1120)
Side gamer of MER comparireni.
(DI Wing Space — Enciomue, Sktciing spaces, side
quiete of SaNEing compariment of Cabine and Culoui
Bow shall be made tight endosutes by means of covers bari
10101 NAONALELEGIRKAL CODE Bresson
Copri NEPA For ent ve ue or NEPA Free Access stn No! fr i Buon Gu gian cranny
Far aa ono ae roar om APS use coma RE


--- PAGINA SUCCESSIVA ---

ARTICLE $11— OUTLET, DEVICE, PULL AND JUNCTION BOXES sus
514.5 Sczevs or Other Fanenera. Screns or other fencer let in Table 81.160). Where a box i provided sh one oc
instalkcd in the fichi that enter wing spaces hall be as prov mace sccuely incall barriere, the “alae shal be appor
ded iv o spociiod by the manufactaret or sal comply wilh toned to cath of the. resulting spaces. Each barrier £ nat
the following applicable marked wih tt volume, shall be considered to take up AZ cr
{8 Breva shall he machine pe wi blunt co Cino) I metaband 104m (19 In) € nonmetallic
(2) Gives tanec hab bare brant.
(1) Standard Boxes. The volumes of standard boxes tht ace
0 secon aching a cover shal exer no more ian por market wh hei volume shal be as gioen in Table
© Screws or ater fasteners, other than in (8), peneratinga 1A
coves shall exer es more than f mm (ie). 2) Other Boxes. Boxes 1660 cm" (100 in) orlees, other than
(5) Scetess oc oder fastenere ponctcating a wall of a box (hace deca in Table 318A), and nonmetallie boxes
‘Exceeding 16% cm (190 in.) shall etend ho more than shal be durably and legibly marked by the manutactucer sith
mm (i in), or more than 11 mm Gp ind if locatod  Ihek volamets). Boxes describeri in Table SA TACA) that have
sibi 10 mm (in of an adjacent box wall a volume larger than is designato In the table shall be pene
(6) Sctevs or other fasenort penetmting the Nall of a box tod to have thx volume marked as equ sy he ston
noi exceeding 1630 cm (100 in) and noi conc fa
SAMOA) shall be mae Ml atti e bo rn, (8 Box Fill Coleone. The sacs in B138(80)
(7) Stroy or other fasiencrs penciating the wall of a through (8)(6), as applicable, shall be added together. No
ren oc sal be matte Aa ave Se pat by llwance shall be requited for small (ting such a locknuts
font "and bushings. Each space within a box invakod wih a parece
i; ie lt be calulatea squeal.
Ecvption 103) trough (61: A se sll preted ob ogre.
toast win pnd tl) Conductor Fill. Each conductor that orate autside tte
enters pesce ith on cpt nd tenrinates or 5 Tec mths the box shal be coun.
re once, and each condacor that passes through the box
ari nation without plc or temination shal be dountod ane. Each oo
pantl. frost or coll oF unbroken conductor not less than ic the mink
51415 Damp or Wes Locations. in damp oc wet locations, ar leith tequie for fee conductors In 800,44 shall bo
boxcs, conduit bodies, outlet box hoods, and fittings shall be counted tice. The conductor fill shall be cakulated using
placer or equipped o ss 10 prevent moire from aniering or Table AUIS). A court. no part of ich arch the
Bccumulatng wihin the box, conduli body, or Wing Boxes, bo. shal not be counted
Conduit bodes, outer box hood, and Wings nai in sei
locations shalt be lid for we. in wet locations, Approved ESTO An sguipmeni grading couscor or conductors or nat
ern tees est oes oud ies melo ho 19 AW: or dot, Mall period
Mra shall be mito be to du riot om e clos he hs a box fior ded
installed inthe licld in boxes or conduit bodies listed for use in umn aisror similar ranopy and iemainaie within that 4ox.
«amp a ver locations. For installation of lied dean litiigr Clamp Fill Where one or more iniemal able clamps
larger openings are permitted to be installed in the ikl in whether factory or fickd supplied, are present in the ba, a
accordance with manufacturer instructions. single volume allowance in accordance wih Table 314.16(8)
embod So Ser forte hors (1) shall be made basca on the fees conductor present in
fof | Note No Li Ser S14.274B) or i" the box. No alowanee shall be required for a cable connector
Cound Note No. 2 Sex 3006 for proteins againi eh ve Clamping mcm rhe ie box
oe 5) Suppor Finings Fill. Where onc or more luminaite suds
34.16 Number of Conductors in nile. Device, and Joncbon or his art prep In the box a single sor allonaance In
Boxes, and Condi Bodies, Boxes and conduit bodies shall be secordanor wah Table S111ACB)(1) Shall be made or cach
of an approved sic to provide fice space for all endosed pe af ie based on the brgest conductar present in the
Conductors In no case hall the solar of the box, as caleula. Rox,
ted in 11 IGA) be less than the il caleulation as calculatea
in 314168). The minima volume for sonia bodies shall (4) Device or Equipmem Fili. For cach poke a stcap contain,
be as calrulatod in 51160) Ing ono ro cpt le ln ow
ance in accordance with Table S11IRE)1 shal be made foc
Tos section shall not apply to terminal housings PPC! CLCh sole or strap set on the largest conduttor connects fo
with motors or generators. a devices or equipment supported by that sake o Irap. A
Cecil Sete: See 490,12 for oboe requirements of device ar uilimion equipment wider than a single 50 mm
nt ot gore chmod ios 2 in) devi box as deseibod In Table 311.1600 shall fave
double volume allovances provided for ach gang cequirod fox
boxes and conduit bois cndosing conductore 4 AWG Or ioni ing,
larger shall alto comps ith 81128. Guster and device bess
hh abs comply wi 31121 © Equipmeni Grounding Condor Fill Where up 0 four
pen grounding conductor ses a box a Single volume
{A} Box Volume Calculations. The volume of a wiring cnclo- allowance in accordance with Table 8111608) (1) shall be
ie (box) shat be the total volume af the asemibledioctione made beh On ie ese net roar Foote
an whee we. the space provided by paste rings. dome ciering the box. A Visolume allowance Shall be mate for cach
Solume or are made rom bases the dimensione of which are Sona] equipment grounding conductar that cniers the
es ln NATIONAL ELECTRICAL CODE 10105
Copy NEPA Fore use ue or NEPA Free Access stn No! fr GE 1 Gu gian cranny
Far aa ono ae vietare om APS use coma ORE


--- PAGINA SUCCESSIVA ---

pres ARTICLE $11 OUTLET, DEVICE, PULL, AND JUNCTION BOXES
Table 314.1608) Metal Boxes
[reer o—
Box Tote ae ranged by AWG ey
P= i. [= w|® © © © n os +
on as Wh mariana | wn ws | 57 8 5 5 5 2
voli brio oor | HO [OA EE A
00234 pris Ee po wor i | 338 208 | 18 12 SS SS
‘op as wn sare wm ml m2 8 7 5 3
voi fe are Gi o | mw ow 5&7
00234 fe re sa on | 20 17 ir ia SYR
IE fro pre we ms | ww mw ae 5s
[He pris re J 208 | n VE ET 5
Fen pre re pe 20 | 28 26 SS SV |
Towew Beam pee wm | 5s 3 3 35: 1
a I fe date wows | 63344 3 2
or ise2e2hi pated rm os | ss A
[ANC AD pated am Rs | Ss 7 GR 3 2
Beam Baim date a uo | as PR Ea
ENN MN pote Bowe |w wm 5 8 7 oe 3
wos 1s TANTI pen wo ws | v3 5 + 1 3 2
RN pated ICO I SS A
ri) pit ol I TS SE SR |
Bowew ned membres | D0 Wo | 3 8 7 6 3 5 2
Buono  (hi21% mann ben | 4 NO | 03 2 aw 5 4 3}
in $55 des 18 = sing covering i 1a mons 3 3 e 3, sa
Mix 60 Sace ED sing emer ung 2) an mo | e wm 5s 7 65
win dee So mie ez | 2 We | RW 3&7 a
Tin G3 deh PD mkt | Wh ESSE NR
hee rv clan alone erp by 8 BEY Orig (917
box, basca on the beget equipment grounding conductor Tube SL416B}X1) Volume Allowance Required per
entering the box Conducir
© Terminal Block Fil, Where a terminal blocks pros 3 meme
box, a sigle volume. alban in accordance ih Table Free Space Wako Box or Each
SILICIO shall be made for cach terminal block asserbl Sieof Condor Costuaor
bassa on the get condurtoris) tenet tthe ae mb py = or
«€ Conti Boden mn me Co
0) General, Cond boc cncleviag 6 A conduciors ax 15 Ed 5
smaller, ce than short carla corn bic as described in i" = 2%
BIAGI, shall ture a cnmsectional acca not kes than I pesi 2
twice the xorsscctional arca af ine largest conduit ar bing 10 A ae Ei
which they can be atached, The ma timara number of contac. H oe so
tor pemited shal be the maximum number period by sim
"abi 1 of Chapter 9 for the condult o bin io which it 1
attached approvo sar to provide ce space forall conductor
2 With Spices. Tape, or Dev. on shore con bois 1° conati bets
that are durably and legibly marie by the manulactter wilh $14.17 Conductors and Cables Esering Boxes, Canc
thei volume shall be primi to conta splces, ps order Bodien ar Firings Conduriore eniedng boxes, condul
ces. The maximum numb of conducts shall be calculatod boos or fittings shall be protected fromabrason Conductors
in accordance wif $1168) Gout bodies shall be suppor: and cables shall comply wi 311A) rg (2
edna cd and secure manner
(A) Opening 10 Be Closed. Openings through which conduc.
8) Sion Radios Condi Bodies. Cnnuit bodies such a us oo oi be he an epee mn.
Capped chow and senkeentmance cows that ence
conduciors È AWC of smaller, and are only intended to enable (8) Boxes and Conduit Bodies. The installation of the
the ntiallation of the aeovay and the contained conduciors,  Sonductors and ables in boxes and conduit bodies shal
ll not contain Phe, ape, Or device and shall be of an Comply ah HLLIT(BIC1) through (BI)
er NSTONAL LACT CODE DEE
Copy NEPA For ec ve a or NEPA Free Access stn No! fr i Buon Gu gian cranny
Far aa ono ae roar om APS use coma RE


--- PAGINA SUCCESSIVA ---

ARTICLE $11 OUTLET. DEVICE, WL ANO JUNCTION BONES wars
© Conduciore Essering Turoughi Uncfvidani Hola or wilbe no gapsoropen space gieaice than mm Chin at ibe
evs Fe Dating, or mrengnt appa] ML sape
on mons or Seed ae nari i
the conduttore shall enter the box through Indisidual hole. [n 31422 Surface Extensions, surface extensions shal be made
installations here metal boxes or conduit bodies ace wed with by mounting and mechanically sccuring an extension ring ater
comton unprotociad plo Tubing, the individual the box Equipment grounding stall be in accordance with
apenings shall be provided with insulating bushings. Where Part Vi of Article 250.
exible tubing uscd to cncose the conductors, the WDB xcgcion: A suface riension shal be perma to e made from the
Sen) Fo ag Supp to hot Eos tia Song rhc eo 1 ai ob
Aram im) bo bok of condi its and dm Qin en i eg me os a hk ae
Be and DE any Soe carp The ing method Sh re sr Tt
be socured to the bax or conduk body. providei access do te tox interior and shall br amangrd so that any
or co Eon oan Oi Campa Were bly og toy int emo dari del
assemblies with nonmetallic sheaths are used, the sheath shall and cove.
mn sh am Id eh Bok HAO 18.23 Soperts Endosures thi the scope of is acide
in.) beyond the end of ang cable clamp. Except as covered in shal be suppor ed in accordance wk 511 2MA) through (1)
300.15(C). the wiring method shall be secured to he box or ar applicable

A Surface Mouniing cloud on a bling
Eriopton: Whine wows sheathed cate è vid nità single gang ac other sucface shall be gill and securely fstened in place
nonsaetaltc boxes ot danger than a romina! <i 37 mm» 100 mo IE the surface docs hot provide (id and secure support addi.
ook og, an who cts ae dos vo ris gid and cue upper. ad
Sot 28 of so Sst on Mi stent
Ad ao sh nt og + tot rm i
Coons ing ecto inn sali nor Br pant fit. (8) Svcd Mong An coorte support from a
call aves hl be per gt atl kel peng. er directly or by usinga metal palmer, of wad beac
Go Conor nd Cob Eavring, Toh BAUS dì aan Srv, Nats and ecw wher used ssa faster
oc both and encloses individual conductors or nonmetalic ing means, shall sccure boxes by using brackes on the outeide
Cable assembliet or both. th comduator: or bk semble (hE enclosure, or by using mounmiing holes in the back or in
shall not be cequired to be additionalie secured. Where race. OC OF mare sides of the enclosure, or they shall pass through
shall not he plc to be only secured. Where cs: e puerto bin A ma Ge ind E he Rack of coe of ite
cule amily shall nat be teque ca to be addon sca Enos. Screw shal noi be permed 10 pass shemugl the
ibn ie bo oe cont body os le pred re 1) the box ae rod ving
© Temper Limision Nonmetalle boxes and condule ERROR bende he ko on
Soa RT eo He a pment rele a
roentgen ox cont os 0 Boe Metal bracos ll be reve again cmon
©) Conductors 4 AWG or Larger. Installation shall comply @.020 in) thick uncoated Wood traces shall have a cross
Pieri eis ob hl x3 dI Te INT
. one he Bh Ph fo Eon
mai Note Ser Laz) omens a for
a
510.19 Boxes Encosng Fun Devices or Pah Equipment ein E
31819 Bonea Engtooirg Fah Deviene o Fh EAB. cu ing nad Stars da ccloss med in
‘of such design that the devices or equipment will be completely 2 finished surface shall be cigidly secured thereto by clamps,
Corio on he back and sides, and substantal suppor fo he anchors, ar tgs denied or the application.
devices oc equipment will be provided. Srews for supporting (by Si Crilinga. An endosure mounted to structural
EDR TI SE © sei eg. ce ponte cd
314.20 Flush Mousted Insiallations. Insiallations within or more than 1860 cm? (100 in?) in see and shall be secuccly
ad in ple sore i is SONS 0
mh masi el ERT a fi ONE
tipe cover or faceplate, shall he made so that the front edge of (1) Framing Members An ciclosuce shall be fastened to the
bw: hts sin, cx ig or vod cmc mal a (1 Frum Members ta solace shall be fascied so be
be set back of the finished surface more than & ma (in. or Tet or by the we of clips at other securing mean: ont.
Ita ii iso wed te oma: A Tor dl dhe co Cg er) a
a one, Se dgr, ao ge es Soc) empl ming members shall De pen
extenders shall extend i the finished surface or project there.  tedinanapprosed mance and securely fastened to cach other
pst he ang ee
$18.21 Repabig Noncambiste Surfacre. Noncormbauble €) Saponi Wires, The insialaton shall comply
ric act broken of meompic around boxe amply. 010E) The endosute hal be eared. wing denied
a ke ele ud Ds OEY. ah. to ng suppori tt. dog any aimed
sesso Salani Cole 1017
Cou NEPA Forenc ume mo NEPA Free Access tr Not ir er i sour gang arrive
Fara Ne Aa emer NS So


--- PAGINA SUCCESSIVA ---

sas ARTICLE $11 OUTLET, DEVICE, FULL, AND JUNCTION BOXES
support weet) staked foc cling support. Support wets) JET —p————
“sca for enclorure support shall be amenod at cach end so as Tmt ione.
to be ut withinthe ceiling cay: 6) Enclosures in Concrete ar Masonry. An cndosure suppor:
(E) RaceuaySoppared Enclosure, Without Devices, Lumin. ic by embedmeni shall be identiteri as suitable proceed
re, or Lampiratdere An cnclorute that docs not contain a rem comoon and saucy embedded In conan. of
Aeviec{s), ober than splicing devices, or supports a lumi. mason
Sl pb oi OT ob al PROC DI en coe supported by a pendant
ehiecing cacevays shall not exec 1800 cr (190 In 5) in sine ; 4
It shall have thecaded cntrics or identificd hubs. It shall be shall comply with 3141231 {1 oc (BE).
supported bs two or mace conduits thrcaded wrenchtight ito (1) Flexible Cord. A box shall be supported from a multicon
the enchsute o hubs Each conduit shall be secured within ducior cord ac cable in an approved manner that protees ihe
900 mm ($ ft al the cnclosure, oc within 15 mmm (14 0) of conducioni again ain. connection to a box equipped ih
the enclosute I fl Conch em cs ace on the same side a hub shall made wih a mc cora grip attchrmeni ring
Esreption: The follwing wiring methods shall hr pei o supporta Mackod for use vith a threaded bub.
Conta todi f an So, WAIN 8 ou ay comineind Sih (2) Condi. A box supporuing lampholders ac Lunas, or
ou on condi: round uy ne de i of tir conditi by ng ERAS iti luminaltet used La eu of boxes dn
ul longer ta e dn gra 3 ste i he ot AE Ecce ili 301.408), shall be supported by cgidor mt.
A mate metal conduk mons. For ics IGE an 450 rara
12) Raga metal cond, HC {Rin ibe acne al be Cone io the Mise om eil
A A Fic mite hangers suitable for the locaton. Ar the ire
441 nist vesting mi condut, IP I end the coma shall be hadi nrenchiighe Into the box
G3) e amet mine ing enclose, ar identica ha
(E Raceway Suppeaset Encionzes, with Devices, Luminaires, Where supported by only a single conduli, the tread
ertampioldert clr that comin a decoy er I lf prod form ose by he ue of set
ha splicing devices, or Sopp 2 ami 2 lampholder, Xow o athe effective means, of the aminalce, at ay pont
a Ee Peel hah be aticatt 29 m (410) abote grade or Aan gare nat
no cxced 1650 em" (100 in.) in size. it shall have threaded Mast 900 mn (3 ft) measuced hocizontalle to the 25 m (4 6)
cntrics or identified hubs. It shall be supported by two or more peo from, window, doors,  Erches, ee cocaper siae
conduits thrcaded wronchtight nto the cndosure or hubs. pv luminaire support: fs ined ph a ho
Each conduit shall be sccurcd thin 400 mm (14 ind of the CXC ram (32 in. in any horizontal direction from d
Each con point of con any
314.26 Dimensions of Boxes Outlet and device boss shall
Eegpion No, 1: Ragra metal or intermedie metal conditi shalt ho
Sapir No, J it mil mtn, ih TMG omai have approva dimension to allow equipment ina ibn
{ots construc mith onl ore conturt try frosted he wade sor of them to be mounted properly and without Neckhood of
hr conus body is not tag ham he nga (node <i of the cmt damage to conductors within the box.
Expo No. 2 An noon ngs of veo rede ed A) Dep of Outlet Bows Whom Encosed Devices ar
ot hb prin Bp a duet o bart op. Olsson Equipment, Oudet bos that do not endose dev
en revs oe or lesion oguipmeni ah bare a minimum ermal
da dante nd wed in lee of do n ocordane way Ap Of 127 mm (in)
D0. 1348). wher all of the following conditines arr met: {B) Depth of Outle: and Device Boxes with Enclosed Devices
(1) The condi scum Js a a port so that huge of or Otilization Eqipenen. Cutie! and device boc hat core
Cots home) bt gon som rd la pric “tali atea na, al
alri pt tha accoramodater the tear projection of The
(2 Ta bro cont Ung for hr it pie of comit equipment and the tc of the conduc that suppl the
Rp 12 n gi fn 1 tte amen, Th cal dt al include, at hat
Te avaro ot tii pov ko A mm Ol ay exten bones, BASE fingo, of rae cover. The
{12 pr d por of suppone internal depth hall comply wih S14 2431) trough (8981
(91 Won west to uqnolifint pesos, the tyme or mp. asapplicable
oi, moat 4 rt point, & di rt 23 19) tone di ee tht enclose devices o utlimiion
PEI LA AO ta pan oc to dsc iin
horizontal to the 23 m (31) ston fom winds, doors, Fiom the mountng plane of the box hal have a depth hat ds
porti. AR aps. o spin ations, è the mounting piane af ava dept
44) A luminaire supported Ha single conduit does mor esco MOL lens than the depth of the equipment plusé mm in.)
300 mm (12 ML i any dirccon fom th point of codici) Condaciors Larger Than 4 AWG. Bos that cndose dev
o or utllmion oqupmen: supplica by conduetor hrger
(1 Tt spores ano sg outdone na A AGG al be en or oe spie aon
(2081
#6) At the luminahe or inapiolder end the conduit) is thwaded  Rveepiion: Devices or wiliction equipment supplied by conductors
Cog po o box, condi indi, geld tr 5 th 4 AMT hl be porto o ton or in function
ipod ws, Whee a box or cont ft È wd so and ul ons ge hn 1650 em (HD In dito etn dl 0
pp tte Comte all e em dina Jo de soy (vets mos he putamen of 126
re NAONALELEGIRKAL CODE Bresson
Copp NEPA For ext uve 150 NEPA Free Access oes No dr ai 40% our GHG rng
Fr euns Coa. Seed oarS 70 rear AUTRE ue SOA SSMTATE


--- PAGINA SUCCESSIVA ---

ARTICLE 314 — OUTLET, DEVICE, PULL, AND JUNCTION BOXES san
(8) Conductors 8, 6, or 4 AWG, Boxes that enclose devices or 31427 Outlet Bees.
lization equipreni supplica by #. è, 9 4 AC. conductore
Shall have an eral epi that ® hot Wes tn SEA mm (A) Bows al Luminaire or Lamphokder Outlets Out, boxes
hall bas pe tinge designed for the support of Lina and ane
i older and insalicd as Coat) 3112, shall be permea
@) Conductor 2 or 10 AWG. Boxes that encore devices or 10 uPPOR a mine ox lampboldtt
lization equipment supplied by 12 or 10 AVG condactore
by dl Vertical Surface Ott. Boxes we at luminaire oc ar
shall have an internal depth that è not kes han 302 mn a surface shall be ve ec ar
(Um in). Where the equipment projects rearvarà {tom he dec putletcin or on vertical surface shall be ide
ER, le SE ym de (Aw of the laminare thai i premio to be supported by
ve shall htc a depih not dant af the equipment plus Moige ofthe luminare hat 2
& mm (4 in). Where wiring enters the center pon of the SP Por if other than 25 kg (a Ln)
test ol a box apposte 10 iN equipment, the minimum chat: Euprion: A vot a mounint luminatnr or lnapiolter uviging nat
ance shall be inca to 13 ram (ind ‘som ian 3 vg (6 16) shall petted to br Appin on for 20
te rings ht ar sar dio A, provided that de Fu
(5) Condoctors 18 AWG and Smaller, Boxes tht enclose devi.
Soo ibaa equiprucnt supplica by 1 AWC Gc smaller 2704 ADL ok er the mph ds othe don ith
conduciors shall Fate a pth nat not less than 23 mm %0 Or 00 o, ogee.
nino @ Cling Outlets. A: every outlet we evdusivel for ght
ing, the box shall be designed or installed so ul a luminaice
Euegion: Unde any of the conisoni sped in 21424041) or lampholde can be attached. Boss shall be required to
fing (0X), devio or wilson spn hat è ind 10 br Support a laminalce meighing a minimura of 28 bg (30 10). A
lit with od don shall e prat amma that weigh more than 25 kg (30 16 shall be suppor.
(© Clearances for Side Wiring Entrances. Where devices or ted inde pende of the outlet box ane the ute box it
equipment are mounica In bases faving sowing ones, lied oc not low than the eight to be supported The iucrior
Eh Ponduciore enreting tor. Tl be pred of th box shall be make oy th manulactater io indicate to
covered in (1) or (2), di follons The terra 48 applic to any maximum weight re box shall be permed to support
wallofa box ather than the one apposite to the opening. (8) Floor Boxes. Boxes fisted specifically for this application
(1) The marnard projection af the device oc equipment shall Shall be usca fortecepiacks eaten i Bone
ee baroni he CE OT OKO wom tr str i ito fig Rem ur
(2) To cleatance from he box mallto the installed devin or 9% ite poste to lyst dana, fst, and din. oes oct
The charance fem he box li de bald vag rs of Sha ions and sn Gc 3 sat dr
6 pomata be ht 1a he nko appiicanions, Ron piaci
318.25 Covers and Canopies. in completcd installations. cach And sours sl belin avan asse or tn Ape of ton
box shall bare a cover, Taccplate, lampbolder, or luminae
Canopy: except whe the invialiation complice ith MIA 2408), (CI Boxes at Gling Saspendeti (Pade) Fan Outlet Cutie!
Conduit body enclosures shal be installed with a cover, lamp. POXCS Or outlet box sieme used as the sole support of a
{i body nclyuce shal be neal wih 3 SL ANP spend (parle) fan shal be lito. shall be marked
ten | tor the PUP of ach Te ad acater on the ac of the Box as sulabie fo
emerso che equipment, 10 the box shall be either machine
screws, matching the thread gauge and sac that is integral to UE purpose, and shall not support ceiling suspended (paddle)
Sep matching the dread gauge and sac at di negra! #0 ans igh moce than 35 kg (70 1b Fot outer boxes or
the box or act box Siem deve o support Cellinpsuepende
palo fare tht acigh aoc than 1 bg (39 19), th required
3) Nonmetaltic or Metal Covers and Paes. Nonmetalli oc Tt king shall include the mands seighi to be Supported
meal over and plies shll be perio, Where BLD Ole boxes mounted in the cellings af habitable rooms of
ox phi anc mh they hal bo commie to anelling occupances In a beatin acscpiable for the mall
tion ora ling suspended (pare) fan shall comply with one
nail Noi: Sec 41042 for metal ki cami oF he akong
TE Jos i Tami rH (1 nea forlbe sl apes of cling suspended pce
i fans
®) Expored Canbustibie Wal or Gelling Finiah Wore a (2) alo so as to allow ct access though the box to
inate Gancpy oF pan Wet any cable valor cell srucunal framing capable of supporting a Sing.
ing nih capaci between the cage ol the campy a pan and ponte (Fan) lati wo cog Ie box
he outlet box shall be covered wii noncombustibie material i Eo
cequiccd by N02 (D) Utilination Equipment. Boncs cd for the support of
itliration equipment oder than Seng susperdoa (paddle)
© Pesibie Cord Pendant, Covers af outkt boscs and ans shall rasi the sete menti of SASHA) ot The aupport
Conch bes tig holes hugh hich [Exile cord pend: ala amit har Is the same se and NEE
Se pax Shak be proved wih Heidi busing» oc hall
have smooth, well-rounded surfaces on which the corde can Leeption: Uisintion equipment weighing vot mom Sumi 3 vg (6 8)
beat Sale hard rubber oe corposition bashing: Sahl not Malte lid para on less ox oi i 0 ne
fue an i cle boxes rd tac ARON 39 de supporting oe &
i io she box i fe than mo © 90 een
destin NANA ELCTRRAL CODE iv
Copp NEPA Foren 156 NEPA Free Access attori Not dr ars 40% con GR Gr Gn
For euns Coa. Sepa 70 BEST AUTRE ue SoA CSTR


--- PAGINA SUCCESSIVA ---

sam ARTICLE $1 OUTLET, DEVICE, PULL, AND JUNCTION BOXES
E) VelginSoppersing Gelling Receptacies (WSCR) and conduciors that are less than the rms condult ar big
Weigh Sapparing Aviachmen Eiings (ASAP), Outlet boxes 1 (of condults or tubing being arch peemittod by Table 1 i
conte In 11.3 shall be primed lo suppoct Fe weight Chace,
upporing ceiling fomplacic MSC, A MCR shall be ed ied conduit bodies! dimensions lese than those iced
a yh AMPA ORL PPOCUINE ae in SIAZAANZI, and hig cde of the cv to the cente
siii (he weight and tearing orientation fis al ape dat An toto th at dated la Table of Chup © oc
O ia avon be Included in the Gons of combinations of conduemes permed by Table 1 of
box tl calculation covered in 31116089) Chapter These conduit bodies shall be marked lo show they
Cited WSCR usd in combination wih compatible WAP have be specifically Gialuated in accordance wi 14s prov
shalt be preted 0 be insallea hs outlet boxes for de sole son
pga cling suspended (addi) fans, inaccocdance vili yer the pected combination af conduciors for which
Te te box o: cont body has been linedare Kohan he maxi
mt] None: Ser ANSUNENA WD, Amer Snel ma. Conduit ox tag lil pore by Table of Chapier 3
Sedo fr Wing Gr Dimmers osama [he boo conduli bod shall be permanent marked th the
Sint oF wea Ang Meno and maxmum number and maimuna size of Conductor PATA:
Seeing dione Fis ica For other conductor tee and combinations. the wal
314.28 Pull and Junction Boxes and Cond Boies, Boxes crossaecuonal arca of the fil al mt seed the crow
and conduit bodies used as pull or junction boxes shall comply Sectional arca of the conductors spediicd in the marking,
SU SIAZACAY trough (© based on the pe of comducior ae ae part ot te ro
we lig,
Evin: Torminl housing supplied wi mwas shld compl sith
e pions of + mab Note: Gren bern specified, the pl be
he provisions of 430.12. product standards statuale the All marking wo vered here bed
(A) Minimum Size. For accwas containing conduciors of on cosiocise Tipe RHEIN tain
30 or lg tat ate tuted to be nami. and (or "eo CO in Pull LE In pul boxes oc
nno o aio non boe al a mor Jancion hones Having any dimension cc 14 m (@ f0, all
cable run shall comply wi SIAZAANO) through (AO). coraecor shall be bid or raked up in an approved
Where an close dimensionisto be calculatoa based on tte
dameic of coring raccwars, te ameter shal be th mette (©) Covers AN pull boxes, uncon boxe, and conduli bodies
Agi (trade site) caprese in the ns of measurement ali be provided wii corers compatible vii the box of
cmploysd condult body construction and raph for the conditions o
dla Sirmigin Puls. In straight pl, the eng of the box or 5. Where cd, metal covers shall comply wih the grounding
conduit bods shall not be less than cight times the metric desig."
Teor (trat se) of the agent cacca (D) Permanem Baers. Where permanent barcors are
i inal in a box each section shall be considered a a pa.
2) Ange or U Pulls, ar Spies. Where splices ar where angle Metal
SO Opel are made, ie Aia o Betwect Sach attra SN bo
inside the box o conduit boy and the apposte wall of the (E) Power Distribution Block. Ponce distribution biocks shall
box oc conde bork shall mm be less than lcs the mette be permite in Pull amd non bones over 1600 em
designato (trade size) of the lagost cacenay in a cow. This (100 in3) for connections of conductors whee ivtalied in
distance shall be increased foradditionalentries by the amount axes and where the installation complios mit 311 ZHENTI
of the sum of the diametecogall otter camenag GEES in the rough ECO)
Same cow on the sare wall of the bw Each on shall be Gal
fate india, anal oe single wo Unt provider the max} Sapo: Eguipumni rounding ena br sk be ped in
mam distance shal be wd amala tot
Evo: Were ramon o cale may is in the wall of a tax or 1 Insnlimion Ponce disiribution blocks installo in boxes
cond uty psi renal au, 3 ince from ot wlio sha be Bed
the co shal br pei fo comply with the dance FIT J (2) Size, tn adelition to the overall size requicoment in the fest
od per aratsat bn Tatto 12 (A sentence of SI LZHA) (2), the powee distribution block shall be
The distance between raconar entries enclosing te same installed IN a box wih dimensione not smaller than speci i
conduca: shall not be less ian ti times tie mense devigrator he installation slo of ne power distribution block
rade sac) of te larger Faceva, (8) Wire Bending Space. Wie bending space at the terminale
When iranposing cable se into cacy sie SIMA) of pone distribution blocks shall comply sth 312.
03 and CO, he minimum meric desigimtor (rade sic) i
(4) Live Parts Foes distribution blocks shall no tare nie
acca cote for the number and siae of conduzione in the) LI Parts ower discon blocks sal nt fee uni
cable shall be used. ulated live parts cxporcd within a box, whetl te bor
) Sater Dimensions. Litcd bos o lincd conde bodes
of dimensions lese than those coquied in $112MA)0) and 5) Thrwagh Conduriors hore the pull oc ponction boxes
CAVE shall be pri fo nto of combinazione fo, 4% ductor ha do ne mina on he osc
om [Ep —
Coby REP For ence oor NEDA Fee Access pam Re ru sn our on ens
Foun co Soe om 70 EBL AHR ue LR SSM ATS


--- PAGINA SUCCESSIVA ---

ARTICLE $11 OUTLET, DEVICE, PULL AND JUNCTION BOXES nan
arranges the pow distribution block terials acs unob- compl ah Part (ant th the follwing general proviione
structed following installation. of thisarticle: sii pe
$14.99 Boxes, Conduit Bodies, and Handbole Enclosures 10 (1) Fart 311.2 3113, 311.4, and 3115
Be Arcemiis. Boxes, comin bodice, and handhole melo, (2) Part L SITA: 3117, $1420; 31.2308), (8), oc (GI
cha be intalicd to that wiring and devices contained in SHENG and $1120
The. boxes, condult bodice. or handhole enclosurer can be (9 Part Di, SHIN) and (0 and $1,101
Conse ace rhe cosa wi 31593) ana (6) (E) Gon Bodies Where cot bcs are wed on
(A) In Buildings and Other Sirucwser Boxes and conduit spess once MON volte, he installation shall comply ili
Be Ee nane ne audi ester Part LU and na he Callin general pions of tn article
arc accessible. (1) Part [, 331.4, and 311.5
8) Undergouna. ndergeound boxes and handhole clo. (8 Fart © 349 S105 23040, (E) or (G1 31.283)
sures shall be installed so they are accessible without excavating (hana 31129
sidewalks, pari ng, carth, oc other substance that is to be uscd to ©) Fart UL, 3110500) and 311.191
stabia the inch grade (© Handbole Enclosures. Where bandhole enchsutos are
tren: Let ts ot hele tors shall se preg OF Gn SCT one 1000 voli, he Installation shh compl
pore Lise bs nt ltt crs el eo oi general rion of ie
dl thre location è ofctivdy deicrded and acerssiote for excovation, artiche:

The location cron shall Tob sd i erort, 1) Pat 3148 HAL and 1
maiala, or get THE, €) rar LL SU do, 31417 31 2G, 1208), 11429, ana
314.30 Handbole Enclosures. Iiandholc cnclosures shall be Ham
design and Innate  sithtand al inade Wcly to be $1870 Sire of Poll and Juncuon Boxes, Condi Bodies, and
pares on them. They shall be identiBod for ue in under. Handbole Eoclosuser: Fall and juncton boxer and bandbole
ground ems, Coclorrcs shall prose apprevct space and dimensione for
i the installation of conducinrs, and they shal compl» nh the
Enformatinil Noic: Ser ANSL/SCTE 70-2008. $ ed
rma Noe Ser MSUSCTE mana. gift fr pe erent of the secon. Conduli vis chal be
deliberate nd nondchberac Wai mnading hata be oxpec permited if they meet the dimensional requirements for
ted ta hear on wndengrmnd encores. hoe.
(A) Sm. Ilanchole enchsures shall be sec in accordance (A) For Siig Pulls. The length of the box shall not be less
STE HEAD or cones operat al Ho solisor blow, than 8 times the ouside diameter, onc sheath, of the hoger
i accordano: wa For constr pecan a over SHICHI or ec conor condugtor or cable entering the bn
1900 voks. For handholc cndosures without bottoms where the. The length shall not be less than 32 times the outside diameter
provisions of $11.2 AME), Exception, oc $11 7181), Exccp. of the largest nonshickded conductor or cable.
Tim No. 1 apply, the. measurement 19 he rcmmable cover A
shall be taken from the end of the conduit or cable assembly: (BY For Angle or O
( Distance 10 Oppeste Wall. The distance bemvcen cach
(E) Wing Entries. Underground rays and cable assem: Cable or conditio, dry Inside the box and he opposite vali
les cing a Pandbole cosine shall Siew nio he
0 ibe bor shall nor be less (han 36 es the uti diameter
enclose, but they shal noi be eR to be mechanically fm shall mo n
nonce, but thy shall 5 ec shea, of the largess cable or conduce, The distance
a be Incase for atonal res by he amount of the
GY Enclosed Wiring. All crckoset connor sand any splices sum af the outside diameters, av sheath, of allaticr cables or
einai, Il prevent, shall be Jot at suitable for wei Conductor entries through th fame wall the box.
locations Excepion No. 1: Whine a conductor or cable entry is in the wall of a
(Dì) Covers, Handle cnchsu covers shal have an nud. appt mnt cn, the distante fm ht De cot
ing mar a logo thar promineni Mees. function of sul ert fob ot fo than 0 end i or the conda
the enclosure, such as “clectric.” Handhole cnclosure cosers dor: as provided in 313.5.
hall mace the inc of tls tapes Gr ey hal weigh over on x
i” Mi conati n ve es ak WCET acpi No 2 Wir can an toi and bad end
tes shall be boned in accordance wo 29097 £ the 1% ete f 0 ete ati ui shall be pated do be
conductors in the handhole arc service conductors, or in o fhe
accordano wih F090) I he conduciors In the bandbole () Distance Beweeo Entry and Es. The distance between a
are Totoro ranch cc condutioro cable: conduaror chy and its ct from the box shall not be
Tos ian 3A times the uside hams, over heath, of hat
cable or conductor.
Pan HI, Pull and Junction Boxes, Gopi Bodie, and Hang
Pull ana Junchon Boxe Cop Bodies and Jr We ces are noir and nua ind eevont, tte
tal E is of 36 times tte outside dame hl e fr do be
educa 24 timer hr outside diam
31890 General.
«© Removable Ste. One or more sides of any pull box shall
(A) Pull and Junction Boxes. Where pul and uncon boxes be remorable
dre used on ere over ona voga, the saat shall
des ban ATA EECTRAL GO om
Copp NEPA Foren use oo NEPA Free Access gt Not dr ars buo con GR Gr Gn
Fr euns Coa. Sepa Sa rear union dea ue SoA CSTR


--- PAGINA SUCCESSIVA ---

3472 ARTICLE 316 — MEDIUM VOLTAGE CONDUCTORS CABLE CABLE JOS, AND CABLETERMINATIONS
31472 Construction and Install sion Requirements. equipment owning conductor The means shall be pei
{A} Corrosion Protection. Boxes shall be made of material ted tobe a tapped hole or cquinalent
{oberon rota to cortosion o hall be fay protected: S101 Covers. Metal aver hal be of the same material ax
both ally anti eer by <n og. Fanon PAL. the ko cou body wih oh te ace on hy shall
ok other a be Bc its ly sched tig mac ht È not os
®) Passing Throng Partions. Sable shins, cic, or an 079 mm Us ind tick, or dey shall be het foc the
Tings having smooth, ounded cigs ll be provided where  PUPOSC Metal covers shal be the same dich nos as the boxes
conductors or cables pass through partitions and at other loca OF Conduit bod for wi y are wed, oe they list
pas through pa for ih pao, Costa! precisi or et agp rein:
Bons mere near
ing materiale shall be petit if ai such ore anti nes
(© Complete Eaconue. Boxcs shall provide a compleic alloaliord the tequked protection ana rn
enelosuce for the contained conductors of cables. 314,102 Boshings, Covers of outlet boxes and conduit bodies
{DY Wiring Is Accessible, Boxes and conduit bodics shall be baring holes through which Nexible cord pendants pase shall
i A hat Th coro att accende vi bol terox. be provided vil approved bushing or sali have sel, sell
ng an inca part of te big o coor. Working space Founder Sat acer On mh the ent ll ba. Mete rh
shall roe imac mal 11031 mu past gh a meta as fol eouie.
(E) Sable Covers. Bones shall be cosca ta suitable covers PES RIS Peng of ible muting al fal be
Seal Tene piace. Underground box Tones that wg Pome a na si
oer 5 he (100 ol be coed meio hi eas.
Men Cher or bosco Sul be prone mocked 514.105 Nonmetallic Boxes, Piovisions fo supporti ar other
DANGER AL NOLTAGE REEL OUT Thy mary  MolnBng mean for nominale howes shall be weit of the
te of Ae cov and shall be tei bow ot Ale ber col be onsteueted sos to prevent contact
bl Letter all be block pe and eo 5 mam fin di been he annduetort in e box ana the upper sei
hgh. 514.104 Marking All boxes and conduit bodics, covers, exten
0) Suimble for Expected Handling. Soxcs and their covers on tgs, past ngs, and the He shall be dab and logs
shall be capable of wr litanding the handling to which tievare bly marked with the manufacturers name or trademark,
Re to be abject
Pan I. Construction Specifications
514.100 Metal Boxes, Gandia Bodies, and Eitings ARTICLE 315
4) Corrosion Redan, Metal bower, condu bodies, and Medium Voltage Conductors, Cable, Cable
iting shall be corrosion resistart of shall be wellgakaniscd, Joints, and Cable Terminations
cante. or diem properly cis inse Sh bid
prevent msn
onto Note See 00.6 for ion inh eof pcs Fan. General
pte om to whch nel. $15.1 Scope. This arcs covers the ue, installation, conse:
a st nes Son specibeatione, and ampacitics for Type MY meu volt
®) Mickness of Mela, Sheet so boro pot over 1600 cr conduttori, dale, abc points. ani cable terrminaone
(nn int) dn stre shall be made fon coe not bo than Se mio, ie able ine and abl temi
0 si ae mcs sake fior 201 vol 3550 Son.
$59 mm (ambo in ick The wal ofa malleabile iron oor Te ace melts kgs From 2001 vob to
onl ty anda to pram ol Cahn,
Brass, bronze, af tie box oc on body shall nor be les 315, Listing Requiremena. Tope MY cables, topo MY able
regia ary metal bone or condut Pins, be A gti edi Jo]
es shall have wall ceo mr ston 17 fim Gon tinge shall be Beto The Be cequicemeni fo Tope MY
Exc No. 1: ist bos ana cont oie sho hy pi: CORE Join, cale nag, and conaeciors sal be fe
it toni ant ham shall mdi do dr ma of in
Ser rotto mali
Expo No. 2 The mat of and sor rics conduit bis, os Pari H, Construction Specificalioni
Cond i SNA GCNZ, be prat dir made dl 5 315.10 Constraalone and Appleton. Tipo MA ble shall
erat. comply will the applicable provisions in 315.1904) tlzough
«© Me Boxes Over 1650 cr (100 in), Metal boxes over C1.
Ion cm 190 0.5 Tm size simil be cone ete so 919 be (8 Conductor Applionion and uation. Conducior applica.
mpl cng and Tr, of short oe, the eta Tih go sodinmalatico shalleorapb mata Tam 319 WA)
Pe sali noi be less tin 135 mam 5m anc
®) Thickness of aplation ant Jacket for Norahiede Insula.
©) Emuipmen Grounding Conductor Provisions. A means ted Comiuaiore Token of relator and jacket oc
shall be provided in each orl box for te connection af an monsivelde sod dire malted conduciori ae
IONI vol: to 3000 volts stai compl mil Table B13 1083
osm [ET CODE SoS iso
Copa NEPA Foren unive use co NEPA Fre Access fr Na dr ansi tin con cus rg
Fave Cara CET dia So ein ai e Une tania aeons,


--- PAGINA SUCCESSIVA ---

ARTICLE $15 — MEDIUM VOLTAGE CONDUCTORS, CABLE, CABLEJOLNTS, AND GABLE TERMINATIONS _ 315.10
‘Table 315.1008 Conductor Application and Insulation Rated 2001 Vhs and Higher
[rm
Trade Tye Opus Apoicasos
Nome Leter  Temperwive Provi munion  Omercoveiag
Going NV) WC Doerws Themes Jacket shoot
nba dekec MENG WEG loans Memento aranonr
Thre dens cole ai Toi eras en DC.
©) Thickness of Insulation for Stiekded Invuisied Conduc. cab nstallatione that acc on grounded gorse and shall be
Tore. Thickness of intubion (of shickied sold dielceic mas. permite to be used on abet meme proc the abose
Tate conductors atch 2901 tols to $500 tok shall omply Cari teguirements are met in complete decnergiing the
sith Table 315.1000) ana $15 ECA) tirrough (C103). faultea rection
1) 100 Percem Insulation Level Cables shall be permittod t9 (2) 153 Percent Insulin Level. Gables shall be permite to
be applied where the ante i provided with relay protection be applic in uations where the clcacig time requirements
such hat ground Cake ll be ccarc as rapid ae possible of he 190 peccent level category cannot bo met and the faulicd
But. in any cate, within È minare, These cables ace applimble to scetion wl be decnecgitod In a lime not exceeding | hour
‘Table 315.1048) Thickness of Ensulation and Jocks for Nonsbiekled Solid Dielectràc [nsulated Conductor Rated 2001 Vols 10
5000 Vola
TT {mms = Mamba
boule Wok sseOondunoe  psesaher
ContuocSie lain prom Jee rion pae rove
Coico om wh aw oh om wb aw oh ow ei as mil
A Wwe mm om om wk ms mam»
i Ba ole Imo mo am ow» sk mm mo im
2 CER RO SE + O
ia Ba ome mmo om Ib sk mo se mim O
sao ER SE RE OE C+ O
Ea AE I % ME om dw be ome ae %
prec G6 me Id ow Me ms La sa om 220 2
Sion fer B RE J TO A EO
Wiz Mm bo 2 a le om am De am lo a 0g
sti A 292 3 209 TO A A
Chae Am Lo am wi 208 wm aw to sa ba sm lw
Trae ear me er
‘Table $15.10(C) Thickness of Enulsion For Shiekded Solid Dielectric Insuled Cordurtors Rated 2001 Ves 10 $5,000 Vets
py sen a001-15000 vata ss 001.15 000 wn
ss001-2am00 vm reson von
BRLbion NAN ELECTRA Cok 0-03
Comyn EPA Fora se use 0 NEPA Free Ass frm No! fr si Buon Gow guar ar gay
For ans Cori se dieta ore To rear unattonzea 58 Coe SARS


--- PAGINA SUCCESSIVA ---

$1510 ARTICLE $15 — MEDIUM VOLTAGE GONDLCTORS GABLE, CABLE JOINTS, AND CABLE TERMINATIONS
Cale chal be permittcd 10 be se in In peccent insulation (1) The maximum rat vlage
level applcatont where the itallaion require additional (2) The proper we le of letters for the pe of nre or
insulation abi pha where in this Code
(8) 178 Percera Insulation Level. Gables shall be permis) Fe manufacturers name, edema, or other sine
be applied under allof the following conditions: marking by which the organiation cesponsible for i
= os ac con be rea identica
(1) In industrial establisamente whore the conditions of (1) The AWG sizer scalar mil ara
maintenance amd supervision. ensure only qualiicd yg abond Nole: See Char 9. Tale i Comune Prope
persons service the installation dio. for soto atea expres 0 SL anit far comitor vi
@ Rove de fasti coating ime requirements of the ot onder ams capone i Sani or senda des
183 percent Kael gy cannes be et
(3) Where an ches sullo is required to protect equip. (5) Method of Marking for Type MV Cates and Conduriore
Mei anti persone! no more of the chon In 319 AAC) Tih (84)
(a) Where the Tage section will be decnergircd in an shall be used for markingol cable
ocderb shutdown (1) Surface Marking, Gables shall be durably marked on the
tables shall be peri 0 be wid in MA perccni or Siete, The AWG dic oF dieulat mi arca shall be fepeated at
135 petconi ulation ievel applications where he installation intervali noi eseceding AID mem (24 1), Al other Tarn
Combes saditonal insulatio shall be par ai iena exh 10 mM I i
formation Noi: Sce UL 072, emg: Puos Gl) Marker Tape, ictalcosered muliconducior cables shall
Ea en rand Sarde d 10k. cmplov a marker tape beato wii 1h cable and along it
ditern uo Cine lurid ll oc id
foils 203 mf abla
frit 3 enti da a Barling ® Tug Marking, Metalemeroo, singloconductor cables shall
Pode be marked by mean ofa inked tag tached 0 he feel.
(A) Minimam Size of Ganductors The mmm sis of SEiSUMandng of Wire Size The information comicod
conductors shall be as shown in Table B15. 1208). except 20 fic of tte al sine conductore for mukicondue:
mio ckembet in the Code
pri toe Tape MC cable
e imam sine . (© Optional Markings, Gabcs shall be._prrmitod to be
Teble315. 28) Sme of Cor marked to indicate special characteristica of the cable mater.
mm Ter ah toch ke sole and sang tesizance.
Conor ge Bing SPA os opts 5.17 Marking for Type MY Cable Joins and Terminatione
pi prey 4 Reid tomo or Tye MY Cole oi, Termina.
mw i Bons and Connector A pe ME ghi ln cab lemina.
hod i SS ANTO CD), ana stalle pein 10 be all
ao : 7600 (RAD and hall be. pine ta be opionmlly
fied io acho as desc 95 TC
4 te masimam atod voltage
x Msi, Conduciors shal be of aluminum, (2) The proper ispe Ite of tr for the npc of ire oc
Seminar © STEEL ST
(©) Sranded Conductor, Where ingallcd in raccvass (8) The manfacturers name trademark or ther ditincticc
condutiors noi sperificaliy permitist of eared leurs 1 qmatking by which the organiatione cesponsible for the
Eh Co to be solid shall be rane, Frc ead ei
$15.14 Conductor Ldentificasion: Conductors that are nse 9) The condor SWC siae or cular ml arca dx, o
ded lor re ds ungroundea condurtor, whee wed as 2 ange fixes that the cable joint occable termi nations i
Single conducior ori mlieondattor tables shall be finished py AAT alt nice siae, oc size range, thai the
to be ceark disinguishable from grounded and grounding hi
conductors. Disinguishing marckings shall not conflict in ans sable joint or cable termination is sted for use with
nguishing marking ul ® (&) Connector shall be marked with the following informa.
manne with the surface mackings coquiced by 319.1606) (1) on the marking shall ao be on the unit container he
Granch-dtcult inground conducioc sta De identified in onthe marking shall al be on the nt conta let fi
accordance with 2I15(C). Feeders shall be identified in malls container in whi connector 8 packaged)
rotons wii 1542 a. The manutaciurers name, trademark, or other
indie making which she organization respon
315.16 Marking or Type MY Cables and Conduciors, ible foc the produci can be readily Hentifie
(A) Required Information for Type MY Gables and Conduc- b. The manufacturer rcatabg number
fora. All eondudtor an cables sha be marked to indicate the €. The conductor AM siae o cieculae mi ue age
doltomine information, using The applimabie mee deseribe and number Capp
pha foes 1g the appi A The pe of conductor materials) the connector is
fori
10201 [Ep —
Copp NEPA Foren use oo NEPA Free Access gt Not dr ai 40% our GHG Gr Gn
For vreune Coa. Seed oarS 70 BEST AUTRE ue SO CSTR


--- PAGINA SUCCESSIVA ---

ARTICLE $15 — MEDIUM VOLTAGE CONOUGTORS, CABLE, CABLE JOINTS, AND CABLE TERMINATIONS _ $1532
8) Method of Marking for Type MY Cable Jos, Termina. (7) Conductor in parallel in accordance ih 3101916)
sons, and Connectors. ve Dr both of be methods bn (9 Type MN cable oe where expr 10 direct roight
SID TPE) or (I) shal be sca for the marking of cable Jimmy
in, aon, % connector (9 Dicer bio in accordance with 315.36
(Surface Marking. Tipe MY cable joins, terminations, ac (8) Type MV Gable Joins and Terminaons. Tipe MV cable
connezion shall be darai marked on The sura pins and icominatione shall be perc for use on power
A Rete aid up 10 and inelurling $5000 volte nomina at
@ Tog Maki. Tope MV cable pins, terminations, oc Tae
Commotion shal be marked by means af a durablr primed tag
bi attatheal 10 point or ie ation 0 Tope MY cable joints and teminaione, used where
; expose tort Aug. sal be i for the use,
1G) Optional Markings. Type MY cabb fins and cable cers: gy DES bie
nations shall bc permitted to be marked to indicate special (3) Where eed intermittently or continuously submerged in
Characins, sth as Itc amole ana unighi ee mater ata depth not cowl 7m (28 10 pe MV cable
ean cmon ed forte ire
tu The emitonmental operating temperature range hak be
Pari HI, Installation ielentifed. pri mee N
$1530 nsulimion. A quai pons) wi documenied 9) Wire sod in one or more of th: ling condiions
training and peice hall perform the talon and tox Te MY cable ols and mination shall De ied
ing of Type MY cable. A qualified persons) wh documented foc the wc:
eligi peri nthe insallaion of Hype MY calc a Undeigiound charbecs
Jone shall ecto the talon of Type MY calc fone A b. Tanne
ale person!) ah document training and experience © Cains
il te ation of Type MY cable terminare sha perform 3 Maboles
the installation of Tape oY cae omarion © Saute
il Soe of ANSE NECA/NCSC 002020 or ts bras Eons
Sind oto and i Some Cl. an ps en foe I pang
aaa {mdr ond Miva Hem ib uk an iron io mn leo
nto of Ino Fou Cut od in rtd Gov pe sutabl for the application.
dal open foi ima abi teri Tus won.) n cable mana wher identifica for use, in accordance
Sa init aio eer fo edo vige co. wh 39210, Sn, Oa, ZO
Informatinnal Note No. 2: Where mediunes olage cable b ioed IE). 392.46, 9256, and 392 60,
orth Clint uy egies pata can cose imine rma Note So, L The ses pentita!” è ii an alt
he When landing hd i ho les Cod de jewish
ener ob evi sed cc Ne be it
LCi Sohn ain he ab print in small ml Kite No 2 Ser (EEE ADI, EE Str fy Fr
Crui Dx devono A di ani Loree Daino Stio Ca ont rd 2 AL
Rl SOA mer lemon wb i Ck pini e
ee Tt dhe ia EE
$1532 Ona Permines. an ur pA a lod 19 ne io +
(A) Type MV Cable. Type MY cable shall be permited for use blr
poe ra ic dp to and nhl 350 som. ffl Nove Nn. 8 See EEE 5 1 Sot for Tor
pura ft aT Shen pf iy sooty ig sie
fo tr eld Cok in Feet en Fre 2
J — [CT to Said rio Bort 23 hogs 60
@ in rca Trai oo ions To SA cab wine
(3) th cable sap, whece onic for the usc inagcordanoo on IR tendano ted co rly 5 op
wih SID MD), (Oh and (0), WER), menor maka
SOC SOI), 9216, SP DA and JD Tope MY cab LC vt red fs
that has an overall metallic sheath or ame, complica sotto ryt Canto Spies fo Poe Dstt Siro Rated
seit the conic mes for Type NC cable, and ls Ben S90 eh SA an EEE TH Gor pres
Ti as MY de MC Shall be permiticd to be insale in opera oad Foor for te sion cnr
cable tas in accordance with 327.108) Seriate meri upton
1) ln memengcesupporist Eng in acmordanoo th Part (hte sale band nates ahi a Be of
Ve ad Voie Le Comin and un conc, 1
(5) Ascxposed runs in accordance with 303. Type MY cable cmp och ai snide nf halons. A separable
ita! bar an overall male sheath oF aor complies Soa ng rb dia he sere oe
Wh TE eran foc Typ MO ale amd Cm Pe fe onto als wir eo
a or MC Sal bo rec to be alia Ey SOR ee ee goed yeh
pr uns of mabe ah n accordance wh
5
(8) Covoise conditions where expr 10 ok, gress
apo, gas Face, uth ox kone ances havi 2
eB e oct on the conductor of ion shall be
Ca pe suitable for the application
SE NAO RECTAL CoE pr
Copy REP For nce oor NEDA Fee Access po No! fr ars sn Gos cn eng
Foun co Soe own 70 portera dea ue LR SSM ATS


--- PAGINA SUCCESSIVA ---

1586 ARTICLE 81 — MEDIUM VOLTAGE CONDUGTORS, CABLE, CABLE JOLNTS AND (ABLE TERMINATIONS
$1535 Direc Brat Conduzione Tipo MY conduciore and era sit a malaria! edita to enon, rene dhchangi, and
Eas inca le es paca applelone sali be sd pvt
ne tor much use. ana etica in tora lA (9) Won vet a frazione, ce lc connor) sk
Es ol et pe seer we
jh
FT SEE n and guire taraneors sali de im arroramae mit
Sato otite ot col oh cl 1% SL Jr ee hl bn dh
“The metallic shi sheath, o annor shall be comecied toa men ah ee ee CR,
roi Shee wien a gent oar os
Erin creo
Tung ot ana an ES pn 315.3, En Sa 2
J ———— Ì /
rated up 40 3000 ols and ar poem ty mputators shal be psig 315.45 Shielding m Type MY Cable Joins and Terminations.
sti n 0 spo MN cable Pointe and el De provided a
itato ot he mete io hod ground È
i Note ir En So 2 Fendi Mao: ag
$15.40 Support. Tipe MY cable terminated in equipment or Pari EV, Ampacities
EE a vai ali tot ad oppor a -
by metallic or nonmetallc supports sutable to nithstand the 51960 AMPS d
igor cane os a and oe fo ee and 4) Geena
tr et approved mean  T a esce i i
PP a tomato oe aro O MT QU Tables or Engineering operon. Apacs tor solid
12m 1b om i ere conduzione shall pene 10 be deter
‘por mined by tables or under engincering superision, as provided
$1544 Sticking. Nonshielaea, ronan ta SSA EOÌ
pr geet gi € i
5000 volis shall be permitted in ‘Type MK. cables in industrial The ampacity of Type MY cable installed in cable tray shall
cstablishments where the conditions of maintenance and be determined in accordance with 392.90(E)
supervision ensure that only qualibed persons scrtice the (2) Selection of Ampacity Where more than one calculated or
Eo. Fo ape car, old ere ee de
tion Spee save 2000 voli pane ky lio ampacy could
ah nse Tea ana shall de sie
ded AN monile main. chele shall be coca oy Eto: Wie foe apart pp o peroni fa cir, te
railing como comes gecig bosa ands, NE apart hak ea ow i 6 poet
er ano Bm cas Equo. eu we re spotty den soi rd in 3.3
ment grounding conductors installed sath circuits using. {19 fil ov Ho percento due total circuit.
medium vokage cables shall be sized according to 250. 190). Informa Note: Sec L180 For conductor Lanperatare fk
nn ea a EOE SEALY ly beeen Supention, Under engincerhg supentsion,
EEE SAR GE EAT Engineer Sperion, Unde ene sperone
Esreption No. 1: Nowshinktel insulnial conductors diardby a quail USING the allowing general cquation:
ems st do op do 24 is He
Prikl i’ ssa
[pS dacia Ea
and surjoce meine, or the sulted conducenti] sal de re RCRA IP amperes
nd uit a matris mani sot, het denn, and fxr
pri
12) Woo ed ot locations, he mad conto shall shes
een son: oro ooo see "UE concn temperature CO
sheath. 7. = ambient temperatuce (°C)
01 ion and jo hn sal in nde ih 5 men FREE)
Tette 15.018) de eae of veo i temperature, 7
Carpio No. 2: SoHo lu coor land ufos 5, = Semper eta alin inlet a
Cre tt sh de po mid ow 0 SOG ke pis ote chee
mi oe of cng ume i dire = Rec hia cesisance berets and
forts Streit NA oundganbion,
11 Wow De cot of nature and gion vues formal Note: The dir hr temperature che (07)
ote ret onde ld ne
1 Cont vain meteor ry Sern
Sut acting, ot i ont) hl de
Copri EPA Free ce NEPA Free Aes dat Na! or rat into Sou cao xs
Far Paura a ET a i ees


--- PAGINA SUCCESSIVA ---

ARTICLE 315 — MEDIUM VOLTAGE CONDUCTORS CABLE, CABLE JOINTS. AND CABLE TERMINATIONS _ 31550
(© Tables. Armpackicr tor conduciors rated 2001 sols to Tabie3ISSOC)(D) ampachier of nslarea Single Alain
So ma soll shall bear ph in Table SI SCO) igh  Comdurtor Cable pet in dir
able S156. nga for ambient fpr:
Mitet ian bone spochod in dhe ampacib tab all de SE PIATTA
corrected in accordance with 315 600011). - Temper Rating or
Bosom ae 500135200 Vole
abl Not No. Li Ser IEEE 855 Soot Pos otk impari
re Ri De rete arci formal dal J
Et and vani Fer aa rw Contuctor ore use
pirstierbn “he me mn we aim
or awn Te awn Tee
asl Soe Ko. 2 6210.5, Infoemational Note, for
aan bian ae a co Cy beni Type VaR MViOS Trpebvao MVS
Ph SE BR PS sw» ow — =
anos wc th to hes Con rn mM
firey FA J
DI Ampoty Afsner. FE mo BI
(®) Ampacty: 1 145. 160. 150 175
0) Grounded Soe. Apacs shown in Bab DANG) pr
©. Tob SIC. Table SIBAOCO CSI, and Table wom wm n»
STS 6NC Ue) hal apply for APL uh SHAR oe ai vw BO mo mow
one point oly. Where stiche or there cables ate Sou at wom om mo
one an on po apache aud tale into 0 we mn wm ow
Consiaeraon ine heating A to lt co wo mm wm
Boo ow om mom
wail Nota Bik ie hn ho Buca crn the E i pr
pack LAN to ot sb po mow ow wa
Tow ow mw
wos aw wm
or ela STE Fo fame SE TOT
Dhl S0CH) amps Sage Copper Re TI to
Conductor Cables Triple ed in Air Lemperatareis her Dhan 40°C (LOAF).
pee
2001-5000 Vola 500135000 Vola @) Burial Depth. Where the burial depth of direct burl or
impari mei eT CeCe Pid Fo he ts se
dor rrr WET ing ire abit ampackici halo ankle he modi
Se we MRD we BER eda No oNOBE dO) Nomar
wor (SCR Type asm Tope inv ajumment shall be teguieed where the burial depih is
is pensa VIDS Typha MVAS dead
- a 2). Where burial depts ace incase in pars) of an
H È » ila electiel due tun, a doceease in ampacity of the onduetr®
Cm mm te. peste he rol length of parts ol ie
1 po o mo HO duet am Ro kn an perce the meal
I ww [i = wn gin
Cn ww mw EN al dee ace docper dun shown in a
Vom mn mm 35 speiht undesgroun any hl of gue ar ampachy
wo Bom 0 Fo erating factor of f percent per 3 mm {1 fo meres in
Yom Bam Uo dope chat total periti
0 WW 36 6) Elecicni Dues Egering Equpmen Enlomes. At boca
o a SM rion wing Sie fpr vk ed
Bo ARS Wb I ace a hemos such dics at own Figure
Be mem am mE en rea
TO To EB Bm i ibeampativolomicton ie op dn
wo em ow
om Rf STE ToT sw Toma TET fa
HET rip Re ar
rN
arn NUON ELECTRA ob nan
Copri EPA Free ce NEPA Free Aes dat Na! or rat into Sou cao xs
a Cees


--- PAGINA SUCCESSIVA ---

315.60 ARTICLE $15 — MEDIUM VOLTAGE CONDUCTORS CABLE, CABLE JOLNTS, AND GABLE TERMINATIONS
Table 515.60CH3) Ampacities oftnsulated Single Copper Table 315.50) 4) Ampacities of tusulated Single Aluminum
Condodtor slain Ar ‘Conductor tslaedin Ar
Temperanre Ratog of Conductor Temperanre Ratog of Conductor
S001 1500 S001 Ts
2001-5000 Vols 15,000 Vola 35000 Volta Woks 15,000 Valia 38,000 Volta
Ampacty _ Ampacity Ampocity Ampacty __Ampaciy Ampocity
Conductor SUC IE UE OSC WC SC  Conduaor WC WSC SUC OSC WC 105°C
Sue (156) CP (CP) (FUT) ICR) CAD Site (ICR) GP (UP) RUF) UP EP
GWG Tye Type Type Type Type Te GWG Tye Type Type Type Tpe Te
orkemili NVI) MVAOS MVSO MVAOS MVS) NVA® _orkcmill MVSO NVIOS MVSO MVIOS NVA) NVA
8a n = ZZZ Fw an = ZZZ
sa J ST Re = = ss n a a = =
FET = TC O = = 1 ns i im 0 = =
dow a mh po aw wm
1 #5 om ow 0 ow ww Pm wm mm wm wm
vo we me we me m0 m0 own ms we ms wo om
vo mn om ow wm wm 20 me mo ms 0 mm
0% Mw WW 0 wo ow oo ow wm we
Mo ww ww wn am Yo do mh si mw 30 am
mo mm ih me am 400 mo am we Mw we Ww
Bo m0 GI aw elo sb wn oop we Bo we wm
Wows mw ws we ow mosh ws Bee ww
750 0 ww ws ww mm 7 70 70 ww 760 ew
wo wm Boo Wo im We IGO woo wn ow m0 ow es mo
1250 ww mw imo Bw nw pio me wes gm N80 So eb
1300 1365 BB BH Be WIS AG Woo 1105 RT
mo wm Mes 1 MiO WR Wools pm 0m on we Dw
200016081790 1575 753 35 1) Wn iw hm mw MAS ww mo
Rok Refer 1 STATE Foc To ofampa ie 3 OC For ic Ror STATE For he rat Fp Nes, S07 00 For
condor imam operaio lenperatore aid pkction and conductor imam eperaling lenperatore 1d appli don and
SUGGMDIHAI or cmp res ina fat ores her hc ambient str SU44MDI48) for cpa eo fat ors here hc ambient air
emmraarety he an HC {OFF Lomperatorc hr han HC (105°
(4) Ambiem Temperature Correction. Ampacics for ambient (E) Ampaciy in Air, Ampackics for conductors and cables in
temperatures other than those specified in the ampacit tables ait shall be as speciicd in Table 315 60(C)(1) through Table
shall be corccea In accordance with Table ABADI) or 315600) (19). Ampaciies shall be bascdon the following:
shall be petted to be calcubicd using the foloming qua: (1) Conductor temperatures of SOC (197) and 105°C
tion: rn
@ Ambiental temperature of AT (ATF)
tsissumia Alora Note: Sc SEEDS) where the ambient air
CE semperatare hr ether has 30 104°
refi ren rg pe Data ana Dica
on Buried n Earth Ampactics for conductors and cables in
here underground chica due and direct buricd n carth hall
PPP pac correct for ambient icmperatiace be as pected In Table SIBANCOIN rough Table
ee a ai an S16MCIM, Ampacities shall be bascdon the following:
7, temperate rating of conductor (°C) (1) Ambion: cart temperature of 27° (BHT)
Ti emer arC O) 2) Arrangement in accordance wih Figure 915 MOI)
T. ambien: temperature teed nthe table (°C) (3) 300 peroni loa facet
(1) Thetma resistance (Rho) of
Fy ambien lemperatore aloni (3) Conductor temperatures STC (OPP) and MC
ment Fo rma. nn
€) Minimum burial dept to the top clerical ducts or
cables shall be in accordance with 365 17
Maximum depth tothe top of clecirical duct banks shall
be 750 rm (30 in), and maximum depth to the top of
drcet.buried cables shall be 900 mmm (8 in.)
oa NATO ELECTRA CODE ver
Copy NEPA or arse a NEPA Free Access pron No! or GB 10% Sou cnc cr gn
For tires Gort: SSE oncr “o (oro UT an 5 use COTE ESAS


--- PAGINA SUCCESSIVA ---

ARTICLE 319 — MEDIUM VOLTAGE CONDUCTORS, CABLE, GABLE JOINTS, AND CABLE TERMINATIONS 81560
Dible 515,66CX5} ampachieof an res Table $15.606CH7) Ampachtier of an alse Tvipiexe or
Taree Commer Copper Cae Estes in Air Tire Sng Conductor Copper Cle in tae Canta in
Drona Copper Cte ey &
EE ———" -
TOS WBL35000 hn epee Bingo Consione
impact impacy ToL MRLs
Conducror NC 108°C 90°C sc Ampacey Ampacity
Sh acm gue dwn GED Codes we we wre
ae SH we Wi pe Te we aio an awn
nema vies ave wvios ae BED TH Tipo me
SEI MVM MVS MVR MVS mn nese avis veo aves
© 2 ow lem Typed Vis VI) Mvios
PE e nw ERE] ER
Yow ow o om $ 7 E
2 0 O 3 AR E mew
O: row oe mw
om om mew oe
wo mo owe wom mom om om
i ped fd fed fie 370 20 Ed x0 0
Vo wm ow wm ue vu mo mo om
wo mm wm e e e a e —
Bom de om me n n n om ow
o a 0 so E om om
no SE TS E mm ow wm
100103 me tm me EEE mo
ee Te TED e Pe ee an
i im operating eapetatare and gpl don and JT lemperatire and appli shin and
Son oe mw on fat re nr mor pra ae aid pla tan e
enperastc hr Tun 19 GOT FY. rae hs dun 6 OPEL
Tble$ 15.606) Ampachiesof an Insalate er 8 IS.60CN8) Ampachies of an resid Ty
; ; paces of an Inulied plexed or
Three Conductor Aluminum Cable Bolted in ir Three Single-Gonductor Aluminum Cables in lrolated Conduit
_— WF
rE ———
Tos Meme espe otegor Gaia
mpi mpacy TOOT MRLs
Commer WE 1v€we wre impedes apy
Sue Men (mA A EA WE we UFE
awe SU YH A pe Comox we aun awn awn
oem AWM avis ao wins new we awe an a
FET = = Loh TeV) aie MVS vos
Poa ow Tow Te = =
ET Em FE] + >
2 an A RM PRE gn
1 am SR 18 68 FO O A
E A: om we
do mu moe vw wm wm mo
VET AN > a o n MB 1
Hi ed mw pid ed 30 1 20 200 pes
1 2 2 5 #5 470 5 20 20 20
Bm mm ams wm mm
Bow ose om wm mm wm om
Wow om om om Rw mo mo om om
n ms o mom om O
www Bw ms Bom we mw
Foe Refer SEY or To ari TOT or EER PIEGO TT bom TEC x
I ODIA for thesis oft to fa ors miete dhe ambient die 315 GOLDY foriheampalive nero ln fa iors a ere Ie ambient air
Cerna haber en OC GH peat aber on 40€ OFF
mesta SONA LECIRIA. CODE ren
Copa NEPA Foren use io NEPA Fre fess fr No! ora tin con cus rs
Eon os he pe Sore men vue a SRR


--- PAGINA SUCCESSIVA ---

515.60 ARTICLE 819 — MEDIUM VOLTAGE CONDUCTORS, CABLE, CABLE JOINTS, AND CABLE TERMINATIONS.
Tble$ 15.609) Ampachiesof an inured ‘Table $15,601) Ampaciéesof Thee Single nine
Tiree Conon Copper Gabe in low Gant Air Copper Condudiort in Underground Elvi onions
e Mitte Condaiorsper Elrerioat Puci)
spa ainget CRAL ere
sa a Semmes og otc
apy pray ro Son Sivota
coauace we we wre re e
Sue we amp dep GC cdr EE ERE E
ue on me e ee O e din on ED
hem Tpenvi wis wim ws LE KE AKEARA
A 2 e - > rT)
toe a Bn eGemeweeoswn
FE SR A a O
HE im Wow H FEE
ER A H NO
vo e meme a î po im is
wo oo 20 mo i [I ww mw aa
Vo ome ams aw me IA mom moon
wo EW Bm Ww pi 2 5 Bon
mem a ww 0m ve mow
Yoo We we ow ow = EET —
oom A BZ E vw e Ro
Soom n 0 I mm BR
1000 Bo we i n To = wan
ae Rr PAGA oT bok Toma ETT mee mw an
Sonn mia ad ttre lic nd [rr
Sr hr amp ri er ete a I ES e
pre H FET
Table 515.6003103 Ampacites of an Insuled i lio 1 i 13
Tree Canute Aluminium Cable in sme onda indie TT 2
EST w I w om
Tso Votes isso E
sape heer El wm om wm
Contin we we wwe © PA mow
She we amp awe awe ie BOR om on
Gwe dwn Tee pe ee Ri EE
ten Dre AVIO ao MIS ti mw
Typ. Six Circuiny See Figure 315.60(DK3), Detail 3.1
I n - O memememwioseM —
AE: aa : a E a
A PA H e 2 wow
dow wm om om H FE
Tow wm Ww : mow En
om ww mo Tw FET EET
wo so we mem in Bowe im ie
Yeo Be BB pi LO ®
Yo me an hi EE
mo Ea an ao Ej wm mw
So Ed sos 04 So © mae ww
Mo we wm owe om = woz mom
od bd so so 520 990 ie aw o pi
wom dm fe am ome de E i
or eter TRAE Tr ab mo SEC fr pr S00) rb ies a Tk STE 1000
Lemon moe tai tenor atare od sion. and
S601 1 fei rt fo ear smile
presets
un Sato HLT aL. COVE ES ataoa
Copia i NEPA Foren a use co NEPA Fre fess fr No! dr ansi tin con cus rs
Roeser


--- PAGINA SUCCESSIVA ---

ARTICLE 319 MEDIUM VOLTAGE CON CTORS CALE CLE JOINT, AD CLE TERMINATIONS S850
CA(5 0) Arce Tce Sed TiS1541015 mpc of Tae oe Copper
DucssokOu pee Tus Sogeliied Dh S550QULY mpi of cs eo
Alnar Contr Code pain Camaro Cabina ili ta ara Ce EE pure
le NR iv fe i

rrr Omchlrperirialdey
BE Err
PE SE... S— 2001-5000 Val 500138000 Valta

Conductor wc 105°C Fad 195°C towed | Aepdy

ee BW cee Te eT

FONE A i wr TE EE Be ow
Se mE Om Fo dh dn Gi
‘One Circuit See Figure 31560(DX3), Detail 1.1 wkend MER MVE MER MVE
Eee = ERR

[3 10 Lo 155 165 1 = hd ue a
Three Circuits ISee Figure 315.60(DK3), Detail 2.1 ow RL: LL EL

ET PI ror ee roy

a 08 EB OZ o® 3 8 E ¥ =

ES i a. RE E E
Perry rr


--- PAGINA SUCCESSIVA ---

51860 ARTICLE 319 — MEDIUM VOLTAGE CONDUCTORS, CABLE, CABLE JOINTS, AND CABLE TERMINATIONS.
Tbe $15.60) Ampaciies of Thee rie Aluminium Til 3550/15) Ampaciies of Singie nies Copper
Commis Gable Win an eral Covering Contains Deets cd in artt
Tore Comins Cable in Onderprouna Eletta Duce ee Pie Pere
(One Cable per Elect Baci) asian ag Costu:
_— ET TTY
mpm Rg Got vey pre)
[TE TT Tv J A E
Ampoy | ____Ampedy SU Size. (ISF) (EF awn En
omar HT BEE WE NEE gw e E gn ene
ToT en mm gen dn See es ae wes
Sewn 5 fs Wa uur Toes radusomies pur BIS GODI De 31
Om Gat te Pesto Des 10 x TT
I PO EE 8 Wo ow ow
: FE | PO:
H PO I 2 mm ome om om
: A : Mo im mm
î AE mW
Te FT Er ie a E on ow
om wove we 18% EI ss pei 551 so
a LO I ba 2: A
Te mw wm E mom wm ow
= FEE EA o mo n
Bd Wow 5 ou wo wm dm
fd wos BoB Fo wm ow om om
a. Wwo® Ow o% ES
oe Gomi ti pe 1 RON De EI oo Cee, Cantar So Figari SS SDV DO 1
I pa ” "uo
: L008 0% a H BoB om om
3 pi - è Ri + 16% so Lo po
H BI. wo H n 2 210
JES SY tto te î Be we om me
jd FEE [rE 0 mm mm
in o e o n Er] wo n
i Bom ® 8 on Boom ow ow
Tm wm wm mm ww aw wow
= won om oR 0 wm aw
fd fd E = we ib ES wh 49 aw
= AE oo» wom Em
1000 ini son i 0 ni pa o 35
Ronin Bri Per Rw 51 PA Sw am
n TE ull er eee ae
: FEE res
Rte TERT i eb Tomi EO TET
for cans. rai rl soto
re [Ep relation
Cops EPA Forever NEP Fee en hr Ne ras ou cur nis
Eon os he pe Sore men 1 a RRS


--- PAGINA SUCCESSIVA ---

ARTICLE 913 — MEDIUM VOLTAGE CONDUCTORS, CABLE, CABLE JOINTS, AND CABLE TERMINATIONS 35.60
Tble$15.60(C3(16) Ampacies of Single nly Aluminum Tuble $5 G0(CX17 Ampacites of Three Insulated Copper
Conduriors Direatly Busi in Each Conduciora Cable Within an Overall Covering
e ee “nu Cmbanor Gable, Bien buried mE

Tempe aig of Cor _ O
ToL Van SLRs Temperinae Rango Conductor
cy pre TSO Vol SOL 000 Veh
Cierre WE FE WC FE Amgacity ampacsy
ST gen qn awn en we we we wwe
wo he Tne pe’ Tne oe a
de Tn ue WT lh Cems 00 are awe qn
‘One Clr, Three Cosducrs (See Figure SISSON), Detail 9.1 AWGorkmil) MVS MVI0S MVS  MVA0S
I pn =  — Ou Coos Bee Pipe 55000, DEIR
H dl ww e
I I (TE ——
H [a 4 pd pi © 105 ns ns 120
ob 3 | A
nw owe ow ae : We mow
vo wm mm i mi 0
w mom wm om vo wm wm
pd wow nw pre FSB
EEE RE SESE www ws ww
fd sa sa sa sa 4/0 555 Ma 450 57
sa VA e E E EE
LI Boome wom 0 wm wo aw
EA wom wm Wom 0 ow
red ow ww on So me ome mw
mmm 2 wom wm
oo Cea So Comte Figure IS SODI Dd 101 kd EEE
¥ n n rrr
H wh Ms 3 fp DeCmileRueloow.omis

§ [A EE mo I

: RA H PT

i 190 200 17 190 + Ls 140 155 18

my Fr a a : Wom mm
A wom mow i me wae
wo mow Ei ma vo ws ww Pr) 2
ba HA H ve wom om ow
Tee wm wm ss wn mom om ow
Fd Wome ows an w sio ss BE
so mm
7 lo 5 Ed 2h hid so brid bird 3B
won noe wow fd wow wo
ES RS — on Wom we am
Ror FHF) os NZ ETTI EA EO
for be temperatane rain of rb pi PE -
Ree Retr CERA fo os pes nd TTI
fo be temperature rgd hese
[A re
Copa NEPA Foren use io NEPA Fre fess fr No! ra tin cou cur rng
a rE en,


--- PAGINA SUCCESSIVA ---

15.60 ARTICLE 313 — MEDIUM VOLTAGE CONDUCTORS CABLE GABLE JOINTS AND GABLE TERMINATIONS
Tbe 515.0011) Ampaciies of Thee nse Ataminum Tile $15 GHC)19) Ampachieof Tce Tvpiexed Singie
Conducron Coe Yo an Oram Taare Copper Comat Dect Baried in Earth
ee ot Cots eet Bare in Ets I Cpe Co Pe
eee eee ELE
Tespernze fag fonts Esra So Sw
Tso sso a np mp
mpi ampio Cor WE FE weve
Contin WG awe we wove Te gen dwn gen ED
Te” awn ann awe ann PAH TU SH
Ge er me ee Oe orianin whats wm wvies
_crtemin MVS MVils MUSO MVS cu, Tae Condi Be ies 35.0035 Det 7.1
Gue Grose 50 Fe SD DENIS © n=
i un H Boom om ow
: i Ro wm» H A e
§ wom wom ? mo mo n
2 140 50 145 155 L] kl 240 3 230
î uo mi wm wm wm
wm mm wom ow mom
Yoo wm om tm ZI ]
30 #0 ww wo 4/0 E ww
Vo BM wm mm maw mw
—r wm Boom ow mom
om wm wm
350 345 375 360 390 00 0 ed fed fd
Wom mom ro mE om ww
730 500 0 540 580 JR TR FP
mo on O 08 3 Seoresscomemmorevsmom om
“te Cresta oe re YS 00K Detti. I =
= LAOS è mom om om
s A: : uo man
§ FE pom om mm
E: ow ww ow ws
î Wom mw am am am
iii A RR BoB on
ww mm wm wo mm wm
Yao ol om om we wo om om mM
Wooo om BM ww ow ww
Vv n mo no no n mi mi o
— we wm FA E
Ed Eq Ed E ER 300 335 5 pi pd
Ed maw 3 5 70 wo wn sia sé
o a us wm om EE:
mom ow BR em em ww
Bo sh mh ___ 0 m0 HOY
EY TT Tr ere pre PPE SE TENT TENS i
i pr amit eo
oan [Ep
Comm EPA Fre en NEP Fre ses tr ors ou car nis
BE a Sm a Tir me


--- PAGINA SUCCESSIVA ---

ARTICLE 313 — MEDIUM VOLTAGE CONDUCTORS, CABLE, CABLE JOINTS AND CABLE TERMINATIONS 315,60
‘Table 515.60(CX20) Am pacises of Thee Triplexed Single Insulated Atuminum Conduciors
Bireciy Buried in Earth
“Temperature Rating of Conductor
Ce 20015000 Volts Ampacity __SODL-35000 Vols Ampacity
awe Women OSCENI) | wcawn SCAD
orkemil} Type MV Type MY105 Type MV Type MVAOS
Due Giro, Three Conductor See Fie S15 SO(DK), Dewil 7.1
I 7 75 = =
6 0 wo 0 pa
I po = Ir ws
? 3 re 16 15
\ 1a wo 168 1a
10 200 210 To Ed
20 ES 20 a 0
so E E a5 05
wa 0 sio Ex 0
0 0 0 pz 5
sso sa en 0 wn
0 pi 500 15 wn
70 E] 6a 350 sn
1000 an 75 6 er)
TwoGirodits, Six Conductor ISee Figure SISSUONS). Dewi d1
i 6 = = =
6 i 55 pa Fl
I w 120 fr w
2 [I 0 id Ire
' 160 17 138 w
vo 180 1a [a 10
#0 mm 20 00 Et
0 E 50 #5 #6
wo 25 25 E ww
50 0 10 #0 on
wo 550 [a ss wn
E pi 3 ws 5
70 520 540 5 se
win an pets 5 arn
oe efor we SURE Fo os ola mpacioy nT Falle SUF TOUT for Th tempering 7
Condor
NS NOVA ELECTR ALCO: 7
‘Copyngr NEPA For ex usive use on NEPA Free Access platform No: fr aisi Bu 10n Gow saci or gang
For ies or” user Sr pac “o report Ln alan zo use Coat SSaTIDATS


--- PAGINA SUCCESSIVA ---

860 TC BO VOLTAGE CORO TORS CABLE ABE OT AND CAL E TERMMATIONO
è sp
®© sc]
— El hoe,
Bhan aot Elo
sso. SAN
Ear wim)
fc rT
= om
[o.99] Ei
Eh
757) (75m) HINA
EES TESO:
gm ASS:
gE Hee.
imam, A LOI
pn
Faia
|
a as
«I la & à
gas amato soy anes
ET) Ey Ee
EB Bes Eine
a= E
we po I wi iero
ein) 1
RR a Sem
Eon Em
ore
ie rr pte nents 3 atenm stona
Tm Conan
EER Sa
ar Qe,
FIGURE 1540038 imino ews ok 515.201
foe A
an en
Co rev PA mt i es rr
HS Sr es


--- PAGINA SUCCESSIVA ---

ARTICLE 310 — ARMORED GABLE TYPE AC son
Tube 15.60D3# Ambient Temperatare Cox ection actors
[Eo TT TT ine ao able ampoctici specihed io be
mpc his by he appropria factor shows below
alieni “Tempe re Babogof andor bear
Tomperanze Tamperenze
ca ce
orto 1 IE Berio
frets 12 1a EE
res ie pil red
fred ii ui pres
Fe ho 107 So
ms io 10: Ea
fi top 100 pc)
pres a 0% 103-113
wh on on jira
3133 ai om ri
fd on pr prea
ws on oe iat
se pe] on pan
pe as oie er
760 on pred 168-176
es bi pi fend
on > on fit
pre = on iam
for = ok fod
tì Where exposcd lo corrosive condition
ARTICLE 320 (5) Embedded in plaster finish on brick or other masoncy in
ord Ctl Tove AC dampor ner iotatione
Type $20.15 Exposed Work. Exposca runs di cable, except as provi
degl in 30% 1408), hal chy tallone the rons of the bu.
Pant. Genera ing finish of inning batta, Exped nino shall ao be
$201 Scope, This ale covers the we, instalation, and Poe to be inaalled on the deride ot it where
Eamon specifications lor amore cable, Type AC appre at och ù
$208 Lising Requirements Type AC able and anodatod 5207 Through or Parallel 0 Framing Members. Type AC
ining sì liste cable shall be protected in accordance ith SLAG), (€), and
CD uber insialind Thrvugl or patalici o Adah
Pan i, Fomaliaion $2025 In Accemible Asics. Type AC Gabos in accesible attics
St0.10 Gn ori Tye AG cable shall be pi a 5070 spaces all be mal pci in SENZA and
posh
Fox tors and branch cituits in both exposed and (41 Cables Run Across the Top of Framing Members Wher
C1 For fees and branch both cpr and Ci Get eo oi EE es er
alee Acro Sing whi £35 © Yor ile oo oc hoc onto
fo nals tice cable shall be proc guard aps that ac at
: ce finish on brick or other ran least as bigh a the cable. Whese th space ¢ not accessible b
am oe oon o oe ote permaneniiy inmalied acs of ladders, protection shall only be
Tobe tun orfihedin the ait voids of masenry block oc SUES within 1A m (6 E of the nearest edge of the scuttle
tile walls where such walls atc not exposed oc subject to Bole or atic enrance.
excessive moistuce or dampnese (B) Cable lasatied Parallel 10 Framing Members, Whore the
om ote Theo ec to dina: <a tale paral to the S00 of te oso sling
pel Rt The "Los mice dil or loos pi, nether guard steps nor cunning boards shall be
equine. and the installation shall abo comply with 300.41).
$20.12 Urs Noi Perminea. Type AC cable shall not be used
olona $20.94 Beading Radin. Bendsin Type AC cable shall be made
Such that te cable ot damaged The ads of the cune di
0) Where subject 1 physical damage Tie inner cdgc of any bend sha nor be less than fis times the
@ In dampot wet locations diameter of the Type AC cable,
(3) nai voidso! masoney block ortile walk mere such vale i
Reno subject to excessive mob ire or Samp
destin Sitia ——— von
Copri NEPA Foren use or NEPA Free Access GL No! dr ai 40% our GHGS O(n
Fr euns Coa. Sears 70 rear AUTRE ue SOA SSA


--- PAGINA SUCCESSIVA ---

sso wer wT Canes ASEMBLES Te RO
[PR— Fat. Comicon Spesifentona
(i Comet, Topo Cte ol pd fy 330,100 Corio Topo AG able ll fea ame of
4 Comet Te Cle lm pad nd cv fy 0400 Conon Tis abel be sms of
jap ahh ded ad ened pece sd ehi mer pea hall he an tema ling sip cf
pp a ge mc ings ber ppd cope ck
ve Cot. ge oe pi a caentsbe $9198 Conductor sed scr shall he St a tv
rs raat F481 Sond bub coc dal ve of» pe
8 sein. Unto pci Te Cpl 17 201, te emis ll boven eye none
eS mm fidi dat ever aule ion (1 8 ees Mrs cog. Fr pe AT.»
box, cabinet, oc fing and at interale hot excoedig 14m e ioni tant Bbous covering oo
. 108 Equpmeri Gri Corto Te AG ac
(©) Supporting kon er pried, Tye AC ce S108 Eqn rvdng Coacir Te 1 abe
shall be supported at intervals not exceeding 1.4 m {4% 1) TAL of (BID to act as an equipment grounding.
Horizontal runs of Tspe AC cable stalled in wooden or Conductor.
metal framing members or similar supporting means shall be $90.120 Marking, The cable shall be racked in accordance
considered supported and secured where such support docs wich $104, except that Type AC shall hace ready identification
ex exceed 1.47, (440) inter als. dî the manufacturer by ARGO external markings on the
{DY Unsupported Cables. rpc AC cable shall be permiticd to cable armor throughout itsentir length.
2) Dopo Cakes Tre XC able le peli
proc
br mec pon tegec spaces
bd pcs ps ht pled pac:
impracticable ARTICLE 822
or EOE 600 mm (2 10 in eg at semi Fr
where flexibiliy is necessary a Flat Cable bl FC
kn tombe lat point
gie rppon oh poof comecton to a lin; punk. Genet
sit o abet secvial epipment 3p ble and seep This sic emer the ue, nuthin, and
$2 ee Th wk ener lp re hie,
520,30 Boca Fine Se ali point tt wf
$038 Docs od Fag AR PRE SUE STL Cg, Req Tipo a svcd ing:
ok emia hg helm prio price nt
fm mins be dna les oe ing:
fhe Shot culled pteion sy de an
Ips babi 1% op den pen LP pit, tien
len nod di eno The soos oe "
hp ich te Tie oC bl after orc 8031210 Uns Prine. Fiat ale cml pm
couhalent willbe vsible for inspection Where change rade AMI as follows
ins Sie to econ Miers ge Emde eh kc to ppl ale cco ht
Sena Type A able do oil alo pm kg nk, (4) bre cio sl late up dhe toe
do ig, 1 nl mal pple fl pc T
$20.80 Ampacit Thc ampacity shall be determined in accord (8) In locations where they will not be subjected to physical
ance sith 310.14. damage, Where a fat cable assembly & installed less than
Thermal [nsulation. Armercd cable installed in thecal 25 m f# ft) above the hor or fixcd working phtform, E
Dor fd At ott eto fel Ane oe re
exceed that of a 60°C (MTF) rated conductor. The 90°C channel portion of the surface metal rccway ssiems
rd os ATCT) ait dr Tie WTC me
adjusiment and correction calculatione, meses, the ampacity assemblicsare pulled into the raceways.
hime wf cl les bo te ee ota mt
Where mere than twa Type AC cables containing two or sed as follows
et to ceri comdiona, unless ae
ont replay eal mm bn totale ec
Tan Ang Ser a Ur ATS Yh (3 hammeron ee
tor Gatte Tap Te ancy ak ln SRE 6 dit ei eo rte
cable tray shall be dete in accordance with 392 30{ A). or these


--- PAGINA SUCCESSIVA ---

ARTICLE 324 — FLAT CONDUCTOR GABE TYPE Fe poy
$22.90 Securing and Supporting, The lat cable asserblice ccd mackin or oth suitable designaton, The final or outer
hall be supporica In means ef JE special design ieatures,  scetion, opposite the Func condutior elon Gf he Ieri
nin the surface metal meats a block sal bas a bluc making or athe sutable designa.

The surface metal raceways shall be supporied as requiced 10
for the specie racovay to be eet
$92.40 Boxeaand Frings
cas Dent Ends, Each lat cable asembly dead end shall be
tenninatedin an end-cap device identified for the use. ARTICLE 324
Thedeattend fitting for the enclosing surface metal racevay Flat Conductor Cable: Type FOC
hal bem for fb se
© Luminaire Hanger, Lursinaice bangers stalk with the Pant, Geoeral
lat cable asserblics shall be identifica for the use. 324.1 Scope. This artide covers a fickl Installed wiring system.
(© Fitings. Frungs 0 be stall with lat cable sescmblics fox branch cle heorperatng 15pe FU bl ant woe
hall be dtignea and elo to prevent physical damage 10 ate accemsorios as detincdi by the thee, The wiring mem de
he cane semble. Sega fos reali, under carpet squares
(Dì Extensions. Al extensions from at cable sscrbleschall 3286 Lining Requirements, Type FUG cable and associata
be mae by approve wing metinds, sin he Junction. ngs hal be Ure
Boxes. nile athe end of the ot cable 362 ur
#2256 Spices and Tape Parti. inallation
A) Splice. Spliccs shall be made in is junction boxes $26.0 Unca Perini
©) Tape Tae shall be made betwocn any phase condor ga) Branch Circuits, Use of FU al be pected
it, Use of FU stom shall be permet
and the grounded conductor ot am other phase conductor BY Loth for general-purpose and appliance branch circus and for
Mmeanrofdevicesand fitings identica fof the une. Tap devicor outer Qencral purpose
Chal be cate at nor kes han 15 amperes or more tan
$00 volts 10 ground. and stall be marked in accordance dh (8) Brasch Cire Range
SERIE) {lì Voltage, Vokage between ungrounded conductacs shall
it Caco chs. Yolage between ungrouT conductors
Pan HL, Consimetion. sana dn grounded condos hall not xed 158 voll
nstroction, Flat cable asserblice shal coreist of (2) Curren Gencralipupose and appliance branch cecuits
$2240 Conran Fin able avec shall comin of Burr nates wi weplene bt ee
ecu shall have ings nec e seceding SA ampere.
522.104 Condurtors Fa cable averblics shall have conc
ert or atts secre (© Floom. Use of FUL systems shall be pec on hard,
AWE: special stranded cop sound, smooth, continuous [loo surfaces made of concrete,
$2.12 Inmlation. The orice lla cable secrbly hall be ceramic orcomporkion Iiooring wood. and similar materiale
formed 10 [i rr ha ra Fable Dy Walls, Use of FU systems shall be pormittod on wal surfa-
10.401) for gencral branch-ciccait wiring. cox in surface metal raceways.
©) Dump Locations. Use of FU sims In damp locations
22020 backing, be pecan i
(A Tempermre Rating in addition to the provisions of
Stat Tape Fe cable shall have the 1omperatute cal murali CP) Meated Flour Materiali re to ors hard in ccs
a e o aa a aa e of WC (HF) shal be Kena as suitable for use ai these
bind temperatures.
(8) Identification of Grounded Conductor: The grounded (G) Sywem Height. Any portion of an FU aste ith a
oe The Shore! hoi hon Loo el seeing 23 fs (0.090 in) shall be
inca and durable chee or gay MAR taper or eahered at the certo oor level.
$24.2 Uses Not Perminea. FU systems shal not be use in
mati Note: The wb gy a hs been mal in he
pet oan angmanded condodor. Care shad be then when the following locations:
fortran (I) Cutdoocsorin sei cations
(© Termini Block Isentifcatico, Terminal blocks identica (2) Where subjectto morose vapors
fot the ue shall bare Te and dca marks for O {nary bam elasibol) beation
color oc nord coding. The grounded conductor oti, shall in cosidential budge
fare a white marking or the suitable designation, The meat) In school and hospital buiktings, other than adminis:
adjacent section of the terminal block shall have a black mark tive office arcas
ing © athe suitable desigma ton. The next section thal have a
sesti ANAL BETO AL GO fre
Copy NEPA Fore use use ce NEPA Free Access stn Not e ars Buon cose gione cranny
Far our ono user roar om APS use coma RE


--- PAGINA SUCCESSIVA ---

soe TLE 21 FLAT CONDUCTOR Cam Tv CC
St18 Cromo, Crombigs dl more than o Tape FCC cable aula  p—
fre al ini È periti di an one poni Congo di See ice A HAN SAT, xeon No
[tea Silat i
cable shall be pecmitod ln cach case, a groumded ice of 32496 Splicer and Tape.
metal shickding shall separate the ten cables, and coesings of (A) FOC Sysems Alterations. Alterations to FCC systems shall
more than bro flat cables shall not be prrmiticd at ang one be permiticd. Now cable connectors shall be teed at new
poni eo pone lo ale Sesion mali pte
. TE Re Le
FT Tp —
A Sg pp EC Mca: cre al be ed inn
or mechanical anchoring system identibed tor this use. Floors. latin ends.
Be cpu to ce hehe ft FC on (9 Trion Assemblea AR sation aces sl be
ani ape pc ee oh Ts ma
iy
32440 Boxerand Firings. tor connecting the Type FCC cable 10 ground conductor,
(a) Cable Conaections and ining ode AL Tape FCC ad i lh coin he an to de meat abi
fedora pp hart ia eum ni la conici
Fail ah Dia etnica sonia A
satist dampness and liquid spillage arc provided. All bare 32460 Grounding and Bondiog AL metal shickds, boxes
più Na A aa reed ara, recepiacke housings, and scli-containcd devices shall be clectri-
al de al be mated ad male against dampness and Cone the cpm grounding Conductor ol the
guid spl using lisedinsubating ends Sapp branch ecu, Al auch cloeteical connections hal
(® Poluiuation of Conoco. Al escepiads and come: DE hc: Menti ir ot ee
ind = to wn fot Di eh Mil ay lv Be ee Han at E
proper parishioner, aA TIC AR A Tr
«© Sheen
{13 Top Shield. A metal op shickd shall be stalled over at Part HL Construction Specifications
on A TE I ay i
crs. The top shield shall complete cover all cable nine, 224100 Cor
oman and eni ay Type FCC Cale, Te FC cable sl be bcd we
€) Boom Sie A boom dict shall bens Sa FOS al al ot of ten ou oc ot
Ses dn a! pp coda.
D1 Conecton 10 er Syme. Ponce Lech ground I
comection, and sicld miei connection beer the FOG PI Ses.
Ta and he Malay Se Sali be Secombe in 4 CL) risa Dimension. lp anes shield ll
Fon sen A fut [risa pemirierh pip ue Top del
Hal be Atl Boo metallic arl tsb albe
(© sent Connector Sl hic ccd ARE So ooli Atl
to cach other and to boxer, teccpiade housngs, elkcontaned Poked for bottom shickde
Geen Fano SCI using eS con (0 Resi Metal the hl fone coszaoenonal cs
ie {Bat pre dor dica al desiato dl Io AE tan dadi
ot Foo prio, Sore Tape FC calo cate Ol Be Ripe FCE able at the on
S184 Fl Crete, on SM BE Go ai ori Comodon Revs, Set compen te
ue eg dan 1A A 0987 n Con rn Sh en bo och wh
ot ET 10 oe dal be th Peas Sal a Eo ot MAI
pr Suore aan
$2042 Doc, 2412 andi. Tho ig marl ol i bk shall
epee fg
Gy Rep, A cps, pcs bogs nl. RE ESSE Ed ae etaedara I otti
contained devices used sah the FCC sistem shall be identifica tein the KCC halt be denied tor the
REIL SCRE a 10 tie
a Connon fm Sou ming
mo shld Comoe Lo a “SONE (a Cote ting Tp FCC cae shall be sty and dura
ober e Sp FCC cable talpe made to die stich O EE bet SIE ati nal alain ore Dia di i
Qin Mi ito mimmo eg Da THY vl i
(® Recepte and oinge Keccpiack tousinge and sett tomo kod intonato
on ong or cn
Tv
FCC gate. Receptacle housings and scltcontained devices) Ampait O ni
Ha opa oa coy ad tation
RE lor ray donnicin dhe Wg (9 Contacto osc. Comduztore shall be cy an
Se die vi hl het Be and los ay non Se gi Tr of
lalla hes fv done Peel din
om [EO dove ivan
Lr cr garan
FR POM GO NE OA COTE rn ey


--- PAGINA SUCCESSIVA ---

ARTICLE 390 — ETAL GAD GABE TYPE MIC ss08
Pan HIL Consiraetion Specification
ARTICLE 326 3%.104 Conducta, The co nductors shall be solid aluminem.
Integrated Gas Spacer Cable: Type IGS rods, laid parallel, consisting of onc to nincteen 12.7 mm
pa ad 0% in) dameter cods. The mivimum conductor size shall be
or ati me se So bo 4780 er
Park. General 326.012 [osulation The insulation shah be dey eat paper
SEL Scope, The ark covers the we, installation, and apr and a prose whos hexamer (SP. belt
Commi specilcalions tor integrated gar ocr cable, approved or CUI we The nomina] gw pears ah be
Type 1s. {34 hPa gauge (20 Lb/in gauge). Th tiche of the paper
et shall le se poche o bi SIAT
Pan Hi, fomallation ‘Table 26.012 Paper Spacer Thickness
$26.10 Usea Permitted. Type 5 cable shall be pormittod for —_—_—
io undergiound, wating Aces buat rca. ar the
following: Size (kemd) on in.
QU Serconiranee conduce — aa
vo ma oom
tm Feodero: ba seis conor: o o
Ber pn mew ue ew
$28.12 Use Nat Permines. Tipo G5 cable sll not be used $20440 Conduit, The cone shall. medium density poly-
as interior wiring oc be exposed in contact with buildings. cihylene identificd as suitable for use with mtural gas ated
oe hee ite che Pm ro 03 ee a 25 or
sont lor insalbbon purporti or aes The perceni il dimensions for the con are sow i Table
Teac or beni during shipment of instalbion, dhe radius of S116.
ea a ner cage ue io de to bh Theat of the ont pr for sch conduetor ie
shall not be lese than spegiicd in Table 32621. hall calculaied lor a percent Tl ck 10 once ed sone toured
$96.96 Benda A run of Tipe IG cable between pullbaxeso: in Table | Chaptces.
re eb we Soin ai
tone ce bende (300 degeoes ea including shore bende Tbe S16.016 Cand Dimensione
emmy atthe pu ben or emt Cm pini
826.40 Fittings. Terminations and splices tor Type (GS cable Acri Ouiaide acl lade
dall he Ante pe that è stabi tor mania the Cooturoe “Dames “lamer”
ge grosso wl e cond be and cap ali be piani mete
eon ta gh i ie able a comu cheek e pae Degno Sut am nam wm
RIA Meta ao dhe conda Frama
, et Toe (US cable shall no Ri e ide a
secca ela om si hat wi a i awe ws sm
st.120 Making The cable —
ble 396.20 Miriam Fo SOSIA CADE) and (DI
ET aa
_ MewicDoigosior  Tiadesle em is
5 2 wo 2 ARTICLE 330
E H FE
JR SE SN SA Metah-Clad Cable: Type MC
“Tbie 326.80 Ampaiy o Type IGS Cable Pani. Ceneni
380,1 Scope, Th arie covers the we. pala, and
Sise cad) amperes_ | See Goad) ampensa onsiniaion specificazione of metaelad cable, Type MC.
2 (a Fn
a [3 E 2 530.0 Living Requiremenn: Type MC abb shall be sod
= a se pr Feng or conici ing TI SIC Cale do ps: Cabinet
pi % ES 2 ft RTE et tein
pA 5 on pi
so EI pa pei
i FH = pi
pr | a
EA pi E
[EO zm
Sonn EPA Force cr NEPA Fe Access attratto ara 1 Sou cao xis
Far Paura GOOSE Ee LT ees


--- PAGINA SUCCESSIVA ---

33010 ARTICLE 390 METALCLAD GABLE: Tre MC
Pant. installation 380.15 Ex pose Work. Exposcd cure of cable, except at pro
i ded tn 300 15), shall chy follow he surface of the bull
330.40 Uses Permitted. ing finish or of running boards. Exposed runs shall also he
(a) General Uses Tipe MO cable shall be period ac Pointe 10 be ali on the alone of uss mete
Boe apporto al cach ist and located so ar not 19 Be bjt 10
{1) For services, feeders, and branch circus. physical damage.
© Va pes ighiing control anti signal rcs 350.17 Turorgh or Parallel 10 Framing Members. Type MC
(3) indoor: outdoor Cable shall be prec In accordance nth S004CA), (E), anti
(1) Exporcdorconceaitd (DI where tae og or parle rari mer
0 Deore ewido hor past ns
©) Tobe direct buded bere klentibed for 33028 In Accemible Aten The installation of Type MC cable
în accesuble ats roof spaces shaltako compl wih 82923
@ Ina cay pac
@) Acaccial cable on a messenger. 380.24 Bending Radios. Bonds in Type MC cable shall be so
© In famous (desio ations where speciali. made hai ine able mil ho be dasiagert The Fort OF the
peemitea by othe artici in tia Cao e of the inner cage of arm Bend hal not be les thn
cm Er aon and bade n piatte finish on brick cocoon Soom ech
ot other masonry Expt In dampor vet location
(1) In damp or et locaton: Where a comosiomtesstani (A) Smooth Shes.
Jacket is provided aver the metallic covering and any of {1) Ten times the external dia meter of the meta Bic sheath for
the following conditions are met: able not more than 19mm {% in) in extemal diameter
a Toe metallic covering is mperviousio molsture @ Tuck tims he extemal diameter of the metallic sbeath
È. A pda even to sas È providot under the tor cable more than 19 mmm (5 In) but nor more ian
spiana S3 cora (1 in in extemal tes
©. Toe mina conductors under the metalli cover. Rice temesthe extemal diameter of the metallic sheath
ing are evo fo use in seet location for cable more than SH fam (1% 1) In external diameter
2) Where Singiecomiuetor cables are uscd, all phase (B) Ioteriohed Tone Armor or Comagaied Shunt Seven
onda and, bere usc the grounded condor (0) [oerioked Be Armor or Comugated S
a be grouped oes to mine induce sage
prety (© Shielded Condoms. Tnche times the overall diameter o
one OF the stot cohactos or ve times the serali
{B) Specific Usen Type MC cable shall be permitied to be la meter of the mubiconductor able, whicheser is greater.
BSE Sn AEG STL, mer ih malas cok, veo gi
7183 as applicable and in accordance with BIVIED) $5030 Securing and Supporing.
theough (84). (A) General. Type MC cable shall be supported and secured
mato No The “Coes Dive mvs luis stapios able tes ed and Wed fo sceure ment and
i Support: ap, hangers, a Sls Grings oc other approved
1) Cable Trax Type MC cable installed in cable tray shall means designed and installed o as not to damage the cable.
comply with 392.10, 392.12, 392.3, 302.20, W222, SLI Type MC cable fittings shall be pormiticd asa means of cable
89248, 392.38, 392600), anil SOL aon
2) Direc Buried, De cetburied cable shal compl with 305 (By Securing, Unless otherwise ported in this Co, ables
© 305.40, as appropriate. shall be secured at ntevals not Sacoedling 1A m (610. Cables
o Venier amare cable tang our oe vt Soman sot no larger ti
lese 1 Serie Enoce, Cave, Tape HC ab PARO dall be euro wi SO um 7 n) cs box
stallo aa eno cabinet ring or other cal: tema. In sal italia
Fon, 08 coho wh ungevuniio condiucion: 250 eil ar
@) Incaled Outside of Bailiiogs or Siructures or an Aerial larger shall perked ta be secured at era not excel
et rt of ST me Ar En
ate oc de etl ‘abl sh corms wich 205.35, $9810. and
30832 ad {€} Supporting Unkss otherwise permitted in this Code,
ice shall be capper at vers not excosing 1A dI
330.12 Uns Not Permits. Type MC abb shall not be wed (AT)
under cither of the following conditions: Liorizontal runs of Type BC cable installed in wooden or
(1) Where subyeet 0 physical damage metal framing members or similar supporting means shall he
2) Where pose Hans of the aesirucuise corcosise condi CN ey ai ee aoe ars Th be
Tn (a) or (6), unio the metalle sheath ator tamed ppt and
romani The Soin of prosecad by Tare
rant the conditione ©) Unsupporied Cabs. Type ME cable shall be pertnittod io
be uae ami unsecure where the cable complica th
a Direa bri in the cart or emberlded in concrete
unless identified for direct burial ans of the following:
b. Exporcd 10 cinder ie, cog chlocider, couric alta. 1) ls fished betwen acess points though conccaled paces
lis'or saper sf chlor ar af hydwchin x acids in Tithe Binge oF Rescue ad ppc 1°
praia
wm aTIONAL ELEGIOCAL —
Copri NEPA For ext uve 150 NEPA Free Access attori Not dr ai 40% our GHG Gr Gn
Fr vreune Coa. Seed oarS 70 rear AUTRE ue Cora: CSTR


--- PAGINA SUCCESSIVA ---

ARTICLE $52 — MINERALINSULATED, METAL SIBATILED GABLE: Tv MI sso
ts pot more tan 1A m (SEO in gh fom at polini Table 4028, vith anim operating epee not less
Sabi appt (pent of coon IBIS han 91°C (ISTE) and i peri by 72140. nando
“other eat cnn a na dhe cable and pt Froud and pment Broan svstaciors MARC and
connectionaresitiinanaccesble cciling Tie shall be of a type lied in Table 310 401) or of a (pe
© È Tope MC di lie ammo: Dain ngs nor mah or La Tape MC sable
Ching 90 i (3) rom the bt point abete 18 (oy Over 1000 ete, nc conto shall be of a pe
thee ely Is eras feet th ion At iN Table S102) and Table 315.1000).
of sibration from equipment or to provide flexibili for $30,116 Sheath. Metallic covering shall be onc of the olor.
en op me leer ton $0. Shor vi ml cera shal be anc of the low
450.51 Sige Ctr. Where hale cables ie OF INET metal ape Th ESRC Sat shall he
33-31 Single Condurtore vibere single.comtueto cables vil onamaour and cre Aug. A nonmagneti Aah or ammo
yn song Han be rss on Se cor Te MC appt
protection Sl Roti Costing alll host material
33080 Ampaciny The ampacy of Type IC cable shall be oll be pe mito and shall be equ ca vero tut protection
eerie In coma wih S104 o 15 lor 14 AMG ls ml To shea shall vo e uo dr a Cutter an vig
ae ans accor: wi Table 925 foc Comoe
RANE and 16 A coon. Tor bella shal not
Ct 16 AMC contr The dalton dal 0p sc 3000 pc ton.
post $9113 tens (late Loni. Wee cit o
(A) Type MC Cate Installed in Cate To, To ampagticstor DE Marked HALL the cable tal be ood ant dl bare 2
Tepe MC cable installed in cable tray shall be determined in 5 SPC TT uitible polacco ed BOT Shoah ae
Type BC cable al ea pe of suitable penetrate and a separate
RE omni cobain
(i Single Type MC Conductors Grouped Togetier. Wire
le Tope I conor ropa ogee Ina ors
l'o: are Con bed Sh a spear
paid ih a manica fee ainpace of tor Ere than
213 ie: one conductor diameter © 15x UD. of the bigest
Conductor contained within the configuration and adjacent ARTICLE 852
conductor conbgucations or cables, the ampacky of the Mineraklasulated, MetakSheathed Cable:
conduriori shall or cee the aliowable mpage in the
following tables: Pa Type MI
©) Table 3020 for condurioni crt 0 sobs rough
rs Par, Gevent
Table 13SEC) and Table 1560 for SOME 3331 Scope, This atch covers die ue, installazioni and
See in ati tl
©) Thermal asain, Where more han wo Type MG Sesto cable pe ot
les containing two ot rr 332.6 Listing Requirements. Type MI cable and associated
habs arc italica in ul igs a he Let
Cok of sealing oat wilt mainmining pacing beiwoen
preiterichig pe piirmiicind ein
on val Table SICA) Punts insmtiation
33210 Uns Permit. Type i cable shall be poet as
Pan HI, Consiracticn Specificationa fos
530.104 Condertor For ungroundod, rounded, ant quip. 1) Fos seve, ccc, and ranch circus
a a Er or Tee) For poni hin, cont and ccs
a be 14 A copper, kl of Weare copper and (9) Indey mer contin st raion:
TEAR aria ar ope dada limi & tener am.
© Wacressposeaor concalod
For control and signal conductors, minimum conducior 6) here embedded in place, concrete, Bll, or other
sizes shall be 8 AR opps Nickel Woe opp hore coer in play cone
HAW; copperclad aluminum, and 12 AW; aluminum. @ In hamrdoas (classifica) locations where specially
$30.08 Equipment Grounding Conductor Where Type WC: permitted by other articles in this Code
cable is sd fo provide an equipment grounding conductor, i) Where exposcd tooiland gasoline
alls cd lo prose an coupe ni ground 8) Shes oat ost condoni not dion
380.112 mtn. Insulatoti conductors shall comply wil (1) | aground runs where stably pore agai
oa or damage ator
(A) 1000 Volla or Less. Insulated control and sigral conduc. (11) Inorattached to cable ray
ST 1 ANO Sha De ol a Ei es
vestire SIUSA LECCO was
Copri EPA Free ce NEPA Free Aes dat Na! or rat into Sou cao xs
a Cees


--- PAGINA SUCCESSIVA ---

pr ARTICLE $50 — NONMETALLIG SUE TIED CABLE: TYPESNM AND NOC
intel Noe: The Cen Petit no an dbus (8) Type MI Cable mallet in Cable Tra The smpacts for
i pe MI cab mall in cable tray bali be deere Tn
$32.12 Uses Not Permined, Type MI cable shall not be uscd accordance sith SS2HOA),
nis the tolo ing condigonr ari the allows locations (By Sine Type MI Conductors Grouped Togriber, Where
(1) In underground rune unless proceed tram pial ingle Tipe Mi conductor ee grasped together in a tangle
damage, phere necessary Gr quae configuration. as ease by 39531 and melon
2) Where exposed to conditions that are destructive and a messenger orcxposed with a maintained [roc at space of not
ire lo he be sen ke onl prote less ha 2.15 tener anc conducior diameter (245 + OD) of
Pa the bigs condutior contained sini the eoniiguration and
33217 Tarosgh or Parallel 10 Framing Members, Typ SI Sh comdictore shall mo cc tie Shab Space di
cable shall be protected in accordance wih $04 Where Table $10.17. notes ana ampadtes
ate ong paralle orang members
452.26 Bending Rodis. Beds in Type 31 cable shall be so son Specificnt
made that the table will not be carnage The radi of the Part ML Consinetion Specification
once cage of am bond ll not be loss than toquitod a $50.08 Conducta. Type MI cable conductors shall be of
ows sold copper ACL or hickebomted copper vel a san
ti) Fie times the external diameter of the metallic sheath conesponding to standard AWG: and kan sizes.
Oe ot more than 13 Gin) in external E1510 Equipment Groin Conde Where ie outer
(Ten times the external dameterotthe metallic heath for Scott e made of copper it hal provide an adeguate path to
able greater than 1 mm (% in) but not more than Rees Coi pmeni grounding conduct re the outer
bl: gees han 1 mm (4 in Scsi lè ade ai ati, a separate sap Sonaing
Conductor shall bo pact
35230 Securing and Supporting. Trp MI cable shall be 332.112 [nsulation. The conductor insulation in Type MI
jupporicd and sewed bt Bape eae bangs, oc Se cole hall be a highly compro tetracione mine that
at intervals not exceeding Hm 66 i). provides proper spac for all conductors.
S5L116 Sven. The outer sheath shall be of a continuous
(A) Horizontal Runs Through Hole and Noiches In other constuction to provide mechanical protection and moisture
on era Tun, abe weld dn accordance? ih SANA O provide mechanical pe na
shall be consider sd supported and tod wh. such support
Goes not coc LE 011) ier
® Unsupporiea Cable, Type MI cable shall be pid so
e unsupported nbere the Cc is hod between access pointe
though aoe spaces in finished bulding or Souci ARTICLE 334
appa parable Noumetalli Ze
© Cable Tam. AL MI cable tall in cab ys shall metallic Sheabed Cable: Types NM
pki and
382.31 Single Conductor, Where sigloconducior cables are
Dic all Phase condueters and, where used, the neurali Pari E. General
ato call be groupe together to ARE induced volt
duce sal 23981 Scope, This article covers the ue, incallaton, and
) oman specifica on: oi nonmetallic she athed cable
332.40 Boxes and Firings. 3846 Listing Requirements Type NM and Type NMC cables
(A) Fitting Fitngs we for connccing Type MI cable 10 and associated fang sal be (6d
bmn. cabinet, a other equipment srl Be identibed for such
(B) Terminal Seah. Where Trpe MI cable terminates, an end Part it installation
Co Tor shall be ed hotly alter Roping to $8410 Uses Permit, Tipe NM and pe NC cables shall
resent The cnianco of rakture Ino the isulaton The be period to be we In dhe long, FKP dn PORE
Np a EE 01
providedwith an insulating material. ©) Une and teedamily dwclings and theic attached of
$32.80 Ampaciey. The ampacity of Type MI cable shall be detached garages, and their storage buildings.
Acterminod in accordance with $11.14. The condustor temper- 2) Muli-familt dwellings and theic detached garages permit:
ature at the end seal fing shall not exceed the temperature tod to be of Types I, IV am Y construction. '
rating of the listed end scal fitting, and the installation shall © Uther sue pried tobe Roi m. and ¥
oe he pre agi al nto SRP ous or celling toot prende a thermal bar of mak.
dial tha bas at Eat 15m Gn rating a ened
eg of emi sss.
re [Ep —
Copp NEPA Foren use oe NEPA Free Aes GG Nt dr ai 40% our GHG Gr Gn
For vece Coa. Sears 10 rear AUTRE ue SOA SSA


--- PAGINA SUCCESSIVA ---

ARTICLE 334 — NONMETALLIGSUEATIIED CABLE: TYPES NM AND NM Fre)
foal Note No È Scr NEPA 289 2021, Surndenton Tm (A) TF ollow Surface, Cable shal col follow the surface of
Satie Brean of he a ing code de Unt ing is orf running bossi
de ghe sE aking woman swoon ion oo oe Bt toe cable sal
Pokies (B) Protection from Physical Cable stall be protec
oma ote No. 8 Scene Awe Efo determi 1 OT hal damage be cea by cid meal
nation building ere. Schedule #0 PVC conduit, RTRC marked with the sullix XW,

(0 Cable trays in sect pormktcd to be Types II, Iv. or or cube approved Tare. Wheke pasing thigh a or, the
Vabere te able aie idenuica fer he un, cable shall be caches dn cg metal Sonduik, intermediate
formation] Note No, 8: See S10 IHANS) for temperature Culi RE marea ai dae Se a anes
flit of wrvtacton. means cxending at least 150 mm § in) above the floor.
Tope 1 and Il consiucion whose walled win ace: Conduit or bing sbali be provided with a bushng or adapter
sap permitcd to be nse in lyper 1 and 1 consroe: that provides praicelion 4m abesion at he poni the Sie
tion. ener and exit cacy,
8 Type Nd, Type 3 cable shall pried a ol: pe NM able insallea shallow chases ox gros În
ete ee at ae sy rao SO all pcan Soran
ee ine ar sa acts. Tita the coquicoments in 0L4(F) and covered with phate,
locations exte pias roid in 394 108) a li
(2) To be esa o fone in alt cade in money block or adobe, ocsimilac finish
dle valle €} To Unfinisbe Bement and Craw Spaces. Where cable
po NM cable s ito ols, 15 at angie ih jobs ln untinishe basements and cram
(B) Type NMC. Trpe NMC cable shall be permitted as fol spaces, it shal be perinisible to secure cables not smaller than
(1) For both caposcd and concealed work in de wet, damp, io 6 AWG o thie A AWG conduriori direcily io the oe
of cnc locations, carepi as prohibited by INLINE) odor of the pai Smaller cables sha be cun cltber through
(22 inouside and inside sels of matey lock or te Borca ive te iret elie Nonmealli
3) na chllow chase in MBs, ConGee. oF adobe prote. heath table Hd on The val of an nebo Basement
ied again nals or rca by a cl plac at eat 159 mm shall Be pee to be Intake in a 160 conc or subi
(inn) hick and covered with piste, adobe, or STAC or shall be proteciod in acenrdance wih SNA. Cont 05
ih bing shall be provided. wth a bathing ar adapice that
es lot Peri provi poiceion fem abrasion ai the pov dix abl eners
334.12 Usea Not Per i and exits the racenay. The sheath of the nonmetallic-sheathed
(A) Types NM and NMC. Typos NBS and NBI cables shall not cable shal exten) though the con a tubing and in The
Be permticdas lows uct. device or juncion box nor lese than @ mim 0 In. The
Cable shall be Sted within Sen mm (12 in) of he poli
U) ta anydellingor structure not specifically pecmited in
ang hci suture not specibcally po here dhe cable nee he onda or hing. cal condi
£2) Exposed within a dropped or suspended coiling arity in tubing. and metal outlet boxes shall be cornered to an cquip-
other than onc- and two-family and mukiamily dwck- mere grounding conductor compliing with 20046 and
ibe ne
(3) As seniceentrance able 334.1? Through or Parallel to Framing Members Tepes NM
(9 In commeral garages having baardous (elavifiod) and NSIC Cale shal be proteica i Sccoance si SANA
looses der in DIS here insalica intoughor paral to framing members. Gromo
(3) In theatre and similar locations, except where pemit. met used as tequisal In SON A) CI) shall reali 1 piace and
Sham Be Tek for the purpose of cable protection.
8) motos picture sate $5419 Cale Ear The cas on nnctalic sested
CU In bolstian ac onclemtorsarescalaton “able shall extend not loss than @ mm (4 in) beyond any able
© Embeicd In poured cman, cere oraggrogate  clamporcable entry
(i) ha bazaedour (elaticd) locations, except WHE OTE 3525 ln Aocembbie Ati Toe insallalion of cable in accento
cally permitted by other articlesin this Cade ble attics or roof paces shall alto comply with 320.25
(E Tope NM, Toe 00 cables ll ot be used under tc 35424 Bento Hadi. Sendo n Types N31 and NM able
wing conditionsor in ‘ing locations shall be so made that the cable will not be damaged. The radius
(1) Where cxpovatiocomoske famer or vapor si he cune of the nes cdge of ans bona Gung of alter
(2) Where cmbeckcd in masons, concrete, adobe, ill oc ncaa shall not be less Lian fisc lime: the amet of the
pace cable. For fat cables, the. major diameter dimension of the
us fi a shallow chase in masorey, concreto, or adobe and able shah be scatto determine th bering rads
(0 ineaordampioniione omar i 33430 Securing and Supporting. Nonmetalisheatlicad abl
sbali be supported and Se ute) by che, cable er linod and
35415 Exposed Work. Incaposcd work, csrepr provided in Kenilhed Ge sccuremeni and support, Se rapa, banger or
S116), cable steli be mulled a specifica in SS41BCA] similar Mtings designed and invade o as not to damage the
through (E) table, at inerale noi extecang 14 Mm (8 3 am within
Son mm (12 in) of every cable Site) ito enclosures such 30
outlet boxes, uncon boxes, abs. or Rugs. The able
sesti ATONE AL CONE nm
Copp NEPA Foren use oo NEPA Free Access gt Not dr ai 40% our GHG Gr Gn
Far aa ono ae roar om APS use coat RE


--- PAGINA SUCCESSIVA ---

sas ARTICLE 335 INSTRUMENTATION THAY CABLE TYPE ITC

Long Between th cable ric and ie chscst cable support Where more thas two MB cables coniaiing vo of more

sali not aed 30 mm (IR in. Fit a ha nol be cutenizanving conduttori arc lod io Tang

Japan case Spacing ome cai. rh he same pring wood

e hi pissin alee

Sov af cable protected from physical damage Bra scaling foam, he ampacy of cach conductor shal be adaticai

shall no! be qc be sot A in th a dn actordaneo wen Table SSC and STANCO

A) Horizontal Runs Through Holes and Nowchew in other Exception, shall notapply

eo Talo vor ih 3004

Shall De consiaeceal io be supported and seed vere such ECTS Te thar ro NM able conaming of rere

support docs not cured d4m (4k) intervals and the insulation without maintaining spacig between cables, tl

LA, TT LT A Be delta py ben ie e

opi mean ai 800 om 12 In) of ct bon cab mg of cae conductor seal be lied In acorns

Erm ALT on GE) cr babe TCS TI a SE pion al

si Note: See STUB for spon. here
prises feet Pari HL Consiraction Speifesions

8) Unsupported Cables. Nonmetallicaheaihot cable shall be $9410 Consiraction. Toe cui: abl shea of nanmcalle

permirted ob unsupported where the cable: sheathed cable shall be a nonmetallie mate al.

(1) the bower, accese points through concealed spaces 384108 Conder, The elt nslted poe conductecs
in Thea bulding» or frogurer and upporing 7 Sul be dare 14 AG ongh 2 AM Coppe conduce di
impeacacabie des 12 AWG rough 2 AMC alari nur o poppe <i alam

@ E Ni mae han 1A m (E 0 from the last point of coon Corl and mig com unione hall he no
Calle support o the point of corn to a Le om eA
de apm a de GEA gia Baia sion 10 ite
Point oi ct RE roots oho gre hate “an hb

era of bare nt growing Soa

© Wiig Device Without a Separe Ont Box. A wing

device identiticd for the usc, without a separate outlet box, and 334112 Inmlation. The insulated power conductors shall be

doves iif e iota spare uke box at ae Bad in Table AGU dat are lab fo

a pe circus wiring or on that ls ene or ued in hese

{ef and within 300 ram 12 in) from the wiring deve wall Sables. Conductor insulation shall be rated at 90°C (194°F),

‘opening, and there stall be atleast a 300 mm 1210.) loop of Iiforuational Note: Bpe Riad NMC able identified by the

pie cabic o: 15 mr (6 in) ef a cable and io Sa rd A rad

Eo ide of th, I vali io pormi placement: em Tested

35440 Bocesand Firings Cable all cy is 11500 and 5

(A) Boxes of Isuletiog Material. Nonmetalic outlet boxer A) Type N Tos overall covering shall be flame cetacdani

Suite persi i pied DI SIA Sa malate seria

(©) Devices of Insulating erik. Sclfcontaied ches, (5) Type NMC, The overall covering shall be ame cetac dani

Claman recepiadiet, and Bca. nonmetal ad miao soma, orp tenia ni ad comando vs

ream devices of hing mas that ate

i fot irc it a box lb prem 10 be cd natio

cui boxes ln expored or oncealea tistalbiione, Openings i

Sach devices shall on a chose ft around ou Tot oF

Ihe cable, and the device shall ally ciclone the part of ie

os Ra he cong eek ret ARTICLE 385

here connesione io datos are by binge em Instrumentation Tray Cable: Type ITC

Tm, there te available at many ral Soha

© Device with nega Enclorares, Wig devices wih inte.

©) era ea oman i E $35.1 Scope This aride covers the we, installation, and

al crcl end rae pe atons of aumentato fo Sab: Top
pi TTC) fox application to instrumentation. and control Sccues

334.80 Apa The apace of Tops NM and KC abe operating of IT so or lo and 5 amperer or let

dali de detcem at ores wih S011 The ampacy

Hall noi exceed that of a SC HITE) Fred conducior Tic 2088 Ober Articles, In addon i the provisions of chi ant

soll not de. ncaa of Tepe TIC cable al coh wih oes

SPC (1 rating shall be pec io hed for ampacty CF installation of Tope ITC

tne and heen ron. prove io ha 2PpRcable scl of he

Galatea ampacio doc wor ered that fa OTC (MOTI

ed dor Tor apart of Tes Kf and NHAC ak

ac tea hall dere in rca vità

foray

pr SATONALELEGIRKAL CODE Sen

Comma EPA Free ce NEPA Free Access shar No: or rat isti Sou cao xs
Far Paura Ey ees,


--- PAGINA SUCCESSIVA ---

ARTICLE $9) POWER AND CONTROL TRAY GABLE THRE TC pe
$558 Uses Pein, Tipo Teale sal be permitodio be here a small malic sheath, continuous comugacd
a kn rl arms hee the fond metalle Sho een pe St i applica ret the
ont of meets and son rear Tor ony ook PT nn vc ree pel rl ha De
Ted persons service he Installation: i cenuiced, Pe
nab ma neato So: ne ih of ding ment
& ae rate i Sei To
ohne esto seemed Un LIO, sewing one Same el To SA

08 10. SAI, a ST amas 1 a, ee Ch ai
to Ba Tehama comm fe mated parti Calo He oe nent
guisa meli seat o Ching ae amor applied heh mad tei
mals hea n adorare wt Bs, ADE META HA thst fp
i abi tal be supp and rch at mere not pete CA nent PURE LA
exceeding 1H m (6 ft), fe Abel in CSA C252 Nor 0% M2001, Fo Mata for Find
(Cable miu a metalli shat armor tha complice pe
Sith ite ent and impact ents of Tie SE
cable and E identified for such use with the macking ITC 3387 Marking. The cable shal be marked in accordance with
cable ano noch A org CC) Votare ming Tal or De
shall be continuous supported and protected against marked on ihecabb.
Pina damage Ung Tenia protcelion sich 30 re wnat of the omar
Hetlicated sus, anges, or channel, The cable shall be 3 speed map oe SI oe Feta woh sali have a
ee Amii amp carp
Lxeeption 10 (31: Wir not subject to physical damage, Type ITCER 3359 Overcurrent Protection. {veccurrent protection shall
shall be pormigrd to transition betwee cable vs and Won cattr not cacccd 5 amperes for 20 AWC and larger conductors, and
dna and von espa cn ons n Tom ROERO mp or AWE
Ts pet ns wpe. Th gal de mecha
ae ho xg ol vt wv et on $35.0 Bande tens in Type TC cables shall be made so as
i ro am ie caio
(9 Asaccalcabi —
(71 Diesel bce here a for hee
CU Cher sacd Moose in vom contain Indunzl proc.
yp ana aci doma sete EA do
preventdamage to the cable, ARTICLE 386
[Eg CE tecnologi equi Es I
ment rooms in accordance with $45. HE) (2). Power and Control y Cable: TC
3355 Usea Not Permined Tipo ITC cable sul not be
installed on circuis operating at mere than 190 wok oc more Panik. General
than b amperes. 386.1 Scope. This article covers the use, installation, and
talon of Type ITC able tt other cabs shall be Soon sprGlicalone for pone aid Fone ay cable,
subject to the Maio teguicemena of the prc anch for BPETE
Theloiher alice a Conai “ing Requisementa, Topo TC abc and sri
lic requirements for installation wih Type ITC ble, he Mu amar pyro Type TC alles and i
ris of Tope Teac wo ae: Fas dial ot be
an
Tepe ITC ble shall not be installed with power, lighting, Part Fl instalation
CT} rc tal ate nor po ve or pov. 33010 rea Penis Tipo TU able shall be permea to
limited circuit. $36.10 Uses Perm ee pe
beim No 1: When ried wii igen orion darei (1) For pene, ght, control and signal circuito
Sn ree TEI aon
Exception No. 2: Where a metallic sheath ov armor is applied ow the Py fresh up to 300 mm {1 ft).
mel eho i pe Ts cob {0 Ancuraon locations supporicdbra messenger mire
$550 Consiructino. The flared conduciori of Ts (TC 0) Fa Cl 1 rea Formos Hand dl of
BA og 18 ARC The cation: he
el i be como mle aly rotates on (9) Por non pomerAmitea tie alam ccs € ences
ogra be ro 8 ot. Sch hall De omy val be require nzal 6042.
pria Em a can lo ad the ilizaton equipment or
The cable shall be listed as being resistant to the spread of device(s), providedallof the following apply
fire, The outer jacket shall be sunlight and moistuce cerstant. a. The cable is Type TUR
[ERP pe
Fy SS —
BE Saeed,


--- PAGINA SUCCESSIVA ---

soa ARTICLE $55 POWER AND CONTROL TRAY CABLE TYHE TG
b. The able 8 installa in inqustrial cxablobments (1) Four times the overall diameter for cables zi mm 1 in)
where the contin of malmenance and Supers orless in ameter
Hon cnc that on qual persons service the (2) Five times the overall diameter for cable ogee than
inallatio n. 25 mm {1 in.) bul not more han 8 mm {2 in tn diamo:
©. The able is continunusly supported and protected pa
against physical damage using mechanical proteetion (8) Six times the overall iametec for cables lager than
Sich as xcs, angie. ar chanel ” BO mim 2 in indiame lee i
a. The cable complice with the crush and impact
TE macnn, Tope Te cables nitt metallic sickling shall hase a minimum
preps Ald bending radiusof not less than 12 times the cable cal cham.
The cable secu at interale not exceeding LH m °F
© 336.80 Ampaci The ampacey of Type TC tray cable shall be
© Equipment grounding for the utilimion equipment getceminoa In accordant wih SANA) for 14 ANG ana
is provi by an equipment rounding conduetor larger comductors, in acordance with ZS for IH AWG
within the cable. In cables containing conductors ough 16 AWG conductors bees nal In cable rar and
suc 6 AWG or smaller, the cqupment BOWING in accordano wih SIN 14 where invalid outside of abi
Conductor shall be provide within the cable or, ai ape. ete pea
ie time of installation, one or more insalata
onduior shall be permanente dentdica as an
equipment grounding conductor In accordance wth Par HL Constroction Speciation
pos
"e 336.100 Construction. A metallic sheath or amor = dcinca
Expo do (7): Wher moi set 1 physical damage, Tipe TC: in 3571116 shall not be pectin thee under ar ovee the
RS br pried io uns beeen sabi travi and tn  nonmetalle Jacket. Metal HEH) shall be period over
cable auys and equipment or device for a distante nat to cmd groups of colductoni, under ih outer packet, or both.
Tm of) without orm gers Tie atte vl de
shonin pid wie ing cle mn oun th 336104 Condor, For ungrounded, grounded. ana ci:
te bt send ment gronding conductor, the confer ice shall be
14 AMC: through 1900 kei copper, nickel, oc nice costo
00 Topo TC cable shall be cosstant 10 moisuce and como. Copper ant 12 AWC rg MIR TL aluminium 0 compet.
sive agents where installed in set cations i cid aluminum. Insulation pes shall be one of he iper [tea
©) For anc: and totam cuelling units, Tipe TERJE in Table 310 401) or Table 319.42 tha ls suitable for branch
hl containing conduetors for both power and control circuit ana fecacr cecal or one hat identifica for such use.
ecu shall be permite for branch cect and fost
eR Tr cab ita interior ang hab be Foe control and signal conductoes, the miriam conductor
installi per the requirements of Pan Il of Atticie 384 xcs shall be Ih AWG copper, nickel, or ickclcoated copper,
ane where installca as exterior wieig shall be installed 19 AWG coppetca aluminum, and 12 AM aluminum.
per th tequirements of Part 1 of Articke $4. (A) Fire Alarm Syren, Shere ssc fo fire alam scr,
Epon: Wn vet 0 coe a grain and waited  COnduciore shall alto be accordance ah 76049
gun hg ns oud $C (140 0 HE (5) Thermocouple Cirouila, Cona deve TC ath
r rmocouple. Circuits. Conductor in Tipe TC al
att sal ot brame in amparty by 3480 or 240. Ise for thermacouple cic in accordance wih Part HI of
ti Note Na L Ser T2136 Boo Artiele 724 shall ako be pected to be any of the materials
Cln de in soni etti e sane cab et for thermocnuple estensione
Coin ocr Ii rotor Cla | ret. or Chr Li Co et conta of
(10) Dice boric, whece cnr for such use. IN AW an 16 AVG copper shall ale ben accordance with
(11) in hamaoue {rlassilicd) location where spockicalls 724.45.
permitca oho atic in i (ade
12) For sericcenimnee conductor here dentbed for 36116 Jacke The outer jacket shall be a famecctardani,
ach we ana machen Type TER nonmsialic material
foil Note So. 2: Sec SOUND for ompernire 356.120 Mackin, There shall be no sage macking on a
Sov Fondo. Tipe Te cab employing thennocouple cxtondn ic.
356.12 Uses Not Perminea Type TC tra cable shall not be 356.130 Hazardows (Classifiedì Location Cable, Cabk listoa
installetor uscatas folio: and marke Type TUER LIL shall orl with the following:
(1) nal hereto be caposcatto physical damage (1) The overall nonmetallic jacket shal be suitable for the
(2) nstallca outside a avena o cable mas em, oxaept as environment
premiica in 861004), SINT. BONED, ana (2) The overall cableconsiruction shall be osentially desu
Bonn in aorsection,
(3) Uso wh exposed to diret cps of the sun, unleesiden: (3) The overall nonmetalic packet shall be continuous and
ica  sunlighi cestant vapor tight a
33624 Bending Radius. Bendsin Type TC cable shallbe mmc © ay dallappho hmm din in dame:
so 35 nat to caro: the cable. For Type TC cable shout metal
stielaing, the mini mura beveling rada shall be at follows a The equipment grounding conductor shall be bare.
0.2m NATAL ELECTRA CODE SEE
Coat NEPA For ent ve a or NEPA Free Access stn Net fr as Buon Gu gian cranny
Far aa ono ae roar om APS use coat RE


--- PAGINA SUCCESSIVA ---

TCL 334 — SERVICE ENTRANCE CABLE: Tos se AND USE saro
b. A malte hihi stalibe induded ose alloonductors 357.100 Equipment Groundig Condortar, An cquipmeni
ae the outer feet eg eer compia via ne hah es
Er evince oe ae
$51.12 Tominion into concn shall be a heme
eed lor ire Be poe shall be
Ratio lor ve ee Tre minima al] sb
ARTICLE 337 N76 mm (30 mils)
Type P Cable 837.114 Shield. Metallic shicld(9) shall be pormkicd aver a
Aglecodudor a psp oro
Part, Goer 557.5 Jacke, Maio cables shall have an ove
ae on kn. ion
337.1 Scope. This artick covers the use, installation, and rosistant, and sunlight cesistare. When installed extermal to an
construction specifications lor up through 2101 vob pe P_ cnciosure or industrial machinery, sigle conductor cables
Cable tura and ech Fall ave sn eh rome elet ia! e pense ho
i bomen oe © cables ana cnt Satiro, coi teh a nla coder Se
437.6 Lining Heguiremenia Tre P_cables and anocated cor ess
Li or larger than 4/1 AWG shall be permittod to use an increased
ro Tock wo iena a ep ca cn
Punt, installation to fee ET 2 ion
g pobliptiiomhivoiig
3810 Unca Perminea Tipo able stal be pei] 10 be 5116 Armor, armor shall be premio oe th ake
Ped (he are e alle acri al bed eda
(00 Under engines supensision in nc) installation Enyce, 2 Bele meng ol he beat
een i pom ee Sykes Dp, contig of wre laid lor gether, fat
To only Qld persone monitor oes the Sh oo The wes Sh Bee be so
TB ny emma Sms To armo: fo 3
(2) tn ws (clas cations where speciically currentqrrying conductor or as an cquipment ground
ey ot anchor on Cao oe me al cone o Sia al
$37.12 Usea Not Permined. Type P cable shall not be installed be providodorer the armor.
or used 387.120 Marking. Type P cable shall be marked in accordance
(1) Wbete it vilibe cxposod io phusical damage Sia tion Mat re a able aaa e
£2) Where not speciically peemitod by other articles in the marked accordingly
=
Fg oy bendig radi duchg
te aid baila in eines al De adeguate 10
rd or ARTICLE 358
ded and ceca ba able gen Nite and Gai i oe. Servioe Entrance Cable: Types SE and USE
ment and support: siraps, bangecs, or similar fittings, or other
pith Blasi te i di nor Pata pari, Ge
$37.31 Single Conductor. Where sngleconductor cables ace 388.1 Scope, This artick covers the wee, installation, and
3513 Sage Contacto, ere sles ea cable
338,6 Lining Requirementa Type SE and USE abla ano.
337.40 Ampoc Tae apie Type P cable shall be deter.
med in omar O INI) e 8) loc MMG and ied ing be led
Baer ane For 1 AN std 18 AWC codino dhe
rl be cmt in chelate a able 15 i
SEP Asi) ben mele in ate ar ie ee Ty Pani insallation
Re perineo bo dined in sen BEM The 35840 nea Peminea
tos nor esente hemp grote i
i (A) Senise Entrance Contacto, —
ee es an
Bale ai arde Mi INA Se
[rp Consinacico Specibcntione Ata o Ariete 30
337.104 Coodacroni Conductors shall be ct ned copper. (8 Branch Cra or Fee
Gone cro Hoth orig. Te mana 1 ot Contos oad. ie sE
Co cosy no actor [nsulnied, Type SE seovice.onirance
conduct hall be IH AWE. cables shall be peemittod in wick sestems whore all of the
Comm PA Ferree use on NPA Fre ses tr ors co are nis
ERS eA er apd


--- PAGINA SUCCESSIVA ---

10 ARTICLE 340 — UNDERGROUND FEEDER AND BRANCILLIRCUIT GABLE TYPE UP

circu conductors at the cable acco! the iheonasetor thermo (BY Undepround Servi Entrance Cable, Type USE cable

pry hao DE mx under the akong Sons of he

@ Use of Uniamtaed Condactor Type SE service<cntrance 01090 cations

Cable lb pre or wet uber (saad sacks (1) Forinterior ing

arc weed tor circut wiring and the uninsulatod conductor is @ For rvegrand installations except whore USE abl

a Cricige im he ground and is terminated nan mu

“ui pre ntgrounding pucpos sure at an outdoor location and the cable & protected in
pion: tn xing isiolations, insted contuciore shall be eT

permite as a grounded conducior in acorimce viZSIZ and 8) Ac acral cable nlc it isa multiconductor cable enti

ETT, wo dd net ott oe bi ot ar use aboseground and mrtalica ae messenger

ales in service eguipment.and with 223.30 through 223.40. supported wiring in accordance with 225.1 and Part ll of

@ì Temperatare Limitations. Type SÉ scrviccenmance cable Adick: 306

uscd to supply applances hall hot be Shes to condueto: $3828 Bending Radius. ons in Types USE and SE cable

temperatures in cA of the temperature specified for the shall be so made that the cable will not be damaged. The cadius

type ot insulation invalterd of the curve of the inner edge of any bond, during or alter

I ire installation, shall hot be less ta fire rcs th ARE of the

(#) Insallaticn Methods for Branch Circuits and Feeden. ble. For fat cables, the major diameter dimension of the
(a) aria stations, ceo wiallatons shall comply Cabk shall ist to determine he bending attur

with he olan;

0) n adeition to the provisions of th article, Tipe SE si I
sot enman GbE inca or interior wing shall Part ML Consraction Specification
Comply ith she elton coquemens of Fart Il ef $36.00 Consrocon.

Ade SA aching SAR.

(2) Where mor than bo Tope SE cables containing io oc (A) Asemblies Cabled amermiblcs of muliple single:
more cucrent@mying conductors in cach able are conductor Type USE canductors shall be permiticd tor direct
eit in contact wih hero alain, sulk car ul Al conduciocsshallbe ulated
ing foam. without maintaining spacing between cables, formations! Note: The eres “wabld” refer to a sanafi tar
the ampadty of cach conductor shall be adjusted in i proce of Bepling soe cones ribet and wos bo
Te: BEES hE ns setter yb

3) For Tope SE cable th ungrounded conductor ics

ARE an sale, ah io coach hy (1 Unineuliea Conductor, Type SE ox USE cable wih an
ach eni coving containing tw oc more conduciors shall be
HIPC (MIF) conductor temperature rating. The maxi Permitod to have one conductor unisulatce:
mum conductor temporal rating shall be permited 10 338190 Marking, Secvicecntrance cable shall be marked as
be ued for ampacie adjustment and correction PUP reguiced in $108, Cable with the neutral conductor smaller
ses, il the fra) ampacky docs not excod that for a 67°C Ee ungrounded conductoes shall be so marked
(TP) cated condi.

© Sar Dats. Exterior installazione shall

comply he following:

(I in addon tothe provisions of thi ack, serve:
errante abl user tor over or branch cul, whee
installed as exterior wiring. shall be installed in cord ARTICLE 340 Lo
ance with Part lot Article 52 The cable hall be suppor. Underground Feeder and Branch Circuit
iedin accordance 4h 35480 ‘Cable: Type UF

[ER (SE cab insaled as underground teoter and
brinch cient cable hall comple sith Part 1 of ARE
de ban Pari General

Enon: ington Tr USE and mld USE udu 340.1 Scope, This sick cores the use, insaltion, and

shall not be sudo to the amparin limitations of Part fl of Article 347. construction specifications for underground feeder and

198.2 Ure Nat Perminea. Franch cian cable, Tope UF.

(8 Service Entrance Cable, Type SE ble shall not be used 3406 Listing Requirementa Type UF cable and associated

under the following conditions or in the following locations. fittings shall be lise.

@) Where subject to physical damage unless protected in
accordance sth hE) Pari IL installation

(2) Underground with or without a cay

(8) For exterior branch cheats and food wiring unless the 340,10 Uses Permined, Type UF cable shall be permit as
inmallation complies sith Part 1 af Asic 22 and le fll
supported in accordance wih 33431 oc is wed 3 (1) For we underground, inchiding diccet burial in the
mien pared Ming as permitiod In Pat Il of Fou
Noel 06

02m [Erp —

Copp NEPA Foren use oo NEPA Free Access gt Not dr ai 40% our GHG Gr Gn
Far aa ono ae roar om APS use coat RE


--- PAGINA SUCCESSIVA ---

ARTICLE 342 — INTERMEDIATE METAL CONDUIT (14) pm
@ as singlocmdurtor cables. Where incall as single. 340.118 Sues, The osccall cose shall be Name cetacdant
Conor cables, all condutroraf the feeder or ranch mobrure, fangs, and coroson estan and sutable for
circuit. ndading the grounded conductor and equip: cect ural inthe cath.
ment grounding condone, £ ans. sali be installed ln
accordance wih 3003
13) For icing In wet dey. ox corvosise locations
(4) ele” = nonmenallicaealbea. cable, Where so
talea, ite inallation and conductor requirements
shall comple with Parts Il and 1 of Artide $34.except for ARTICLE 342
884.128), and shall be of the multiconductor pe. Intermediate Metal Conduit (IMC)
© As singlozonducior cables as he nanheatng ws for
Bcating cables as provided in 424.48
© Supported by cable sags. Te UF cable supported by Part, Geert
cable apn chal be of the muliicondurtor pe. $421 Scope. This antck covers the we, Installation, and
Uiformational Note: Ser HAKAN) fr persone ios coral spodheatione for tenete cal condok
lion ono. DIC) andor hangs
340.12 Use Not Permits. Type UF able shall mot be uscd 342.6 Ling Requirements MIC, factey clbows and
ss folows coupling, and assovated fittings shall be hated.
fs sence mance able
© Incommescial garage i
©) ln theater and mie locations Pari fl. installation
4) Inmotion picture sunt
©) in norage battery roore $4210 Usa Permitd,
© In oars or on cleratoriar castors (A) All Aumospberi Conditions and Occapancer. Usc of SIC
€) in Bazardous (chasse) locations, except as specicll shall be perio under all atmospherie onions and occu
permitod i aber ales nth Code panciex
0 Embedded in poured coment, cone, or aggregate i
excupt where embedded in plister as nonheating kale (BI Corrosion Environments IMC, clbons, couplings, and
Rm hers ae Feng tali be pli be ld in ont, Indice
19) Whee exposed to diccet fas of the sun, unless dent. COWATt with the cart, in direct burial applications, or in areas
hers capone to he Subject ta severe cerroshe I aces hes presen bs corr:
Sion protection app on or the condizio
Ir So De ion atti oo LG) Cor RC lb pried foe ti oc
lander cites il whece sabe to permanent moisture bere
0m Where subject to physical damage rote on all sides by a laver of noncinder conic not less
(11) As evcrhcad cable, cxocpt where installed as messenger. than 5% mm (2 in.) thick where the conduit is not loss than
Support icing in accordance wih Part 0 oF Adiek Eh IR n) ane Bo hve roche coe.
WF Son protection appre or the condirion
34024 Bending Radius ends in Tipe LE abb shal be © (D) Wei Locations. A¥ supports, bohs, straps, scrcws, and so
made tht the able ok damaged The radius of the cane of foc, shall be of corona tenant ital or proton
he inner cage of any bend shal noc he os than five AMEE the gaint anon by ave sistant material
diameter of the cable. For That cables, the major diameter >
“imension of the cable shal be tecd to determine dh ening (vt Note: Scr SS for rkton agalimi cortinion,
cadius. (E Severe Physical Damage. IMC shall be permed to be
340.80 Ampacky. The ampaciyof Trpe UF cable shall be thar installed where bet 0 severe phyrical damage,
OY (14°F) conductors in accordance with 319.34. 342.14 Dissimilar Metal, Whee practicable, dissimilar metals
in catari anywhere In the yer ball be vided to eliminate
in the posbilt of akan acon
Pan HI, Construction on
Speciicad Stainless stecland aluminum fittings and enclosures shall be
340.104 Conductors. The conductors shall be sizes 14 AWG permitted to be used with gabanized stool IMC where not
Copper de 12 AW dura or copperdhari aluminam Rig o e ured ih bani
through 70 AM.
stainkssstocl IMC shalloniy be uscd vili he following:
340108 Equipment Grounding Conductor la addition to the
insulare comduriors, the cable shall be peemktod t fave an (1) Stainkssstcel ete
insulated or tare equipment grounding conductor, 2) Stainkss steel boxcsandenclosures
hoe (bani painted, powder oc PWC costed, and so
340,112 Inmlation, Theconduciori af Type UF shall be onc of Tort) bones and choruses nen net SUE o eeere
the molare tesistani po Bd in Table SD AC) hat suka ose influence
ble for branch circling one tt i Aen fer such £4) Saini ech monmetallic, of approved accesories
ue, Were inal as a tubriltate viring method for NB
cable, le condi insulation sha be rate HTC (OP)
sesti AONE CODE nam
Copp NEPA Foren 150 oo NEPA Free Access Ge No dr air buon our GHG Gr Gn
[EAR eek SM de A egiiipaor


--- PAGINA SUCCESSIVA ---

0200 ARTICLE Y01 — RIGID METAL CONDUIT (RM
30200 Sine. suemes to tomimion white comu Is detec
40 Mima, mali an mesic designator 16 Grade Riposa SES cc om ntl machine cr ned
size 2) shallot be used. equipe: shall pe 0 be Supported al memo
© Maximum, IMC larger than rcic designalor 19 Grade go aceing 6 m 1 i he cond s mare up is
mm ccaded couplings. he conduli Is supported a
è shall not be red coal erence a ic top and boom of the che, and
Uiformational Note Sc SLE) or he mer debris ho oboe means of nie ai support coal asda:
ee Moe are fat en ao parma on fi
do not relale o attua meio. 0) Iorizontal cuns of DC supported by openings through
34222 Number of Conductors The number of conductors framing members at intervals not exceeding $ m (10 ft)
Shall not coe ha pemiticd by the percentage Mil specite and securely fstened +E 900 mm (3 of termine.
in Table 1. Chapice 3. tion pins shall be pecs
Cables shall be peemittod to be nal «bere such use is 4242 Couplings and Connector,
not prohibited by {he tespecuice Cable articles, The number of rests Threaten comings and connectors used
Cable ote he shane pereeniage oh pened (Tce Moc couple: sd Sino ued
in Table 1. Chapter 9. concrete, they shall be the concrctctight pe. Where indalkd
34224 Benda in wet locations, they shall comply with 314.15. Thrcadless
upg and Sonics Shak nor de wl on. treated
(A) Blow sack. Bens of DIC shall be so made hat the sonable Fed Tor pur pon
Conduit will nt be damaged and the invernal diameter of the "
Sonu wal ot be tee tedueta The reise of the uve (8) Running Thread. Running thecacs shal not be uscd on
Gi an field bend to he centerine of the condali shall noi pe condak for Connection at upg
less than indicated in Table 2, Chapter ®. 342.46 Bushings. Where a conduk cnters a box, fiting, or
(Bì Number in One Run. The total degrecs of bends in a other enclosure. a bushing shall be provided to protect the
Condultrun shall nol Ee 360 degree Between pull points. mici Rom abrasion anon the box, Bing or Chek +
o a Aenea provide such protection
Er Nena italy Kou Ser LAC rhe pions dn
cca In the held, a sandardeutiing die with a taperof din ANCL Lager ting
16 8% in. taper per foot) stall br used. 342.56 Spices and Taps Splices and taps shall be made in
Iiforimational Note: Ser ANSI/ASME BL 20.1-2013, Surman for accordance with 300.45.
Ps Senta God pn ch 4260 Grounding, IMC shall be pei as an equipment
382.30 Securing and Supporting, IMC shall be installed ar a Sounding conductor
complete sera in accordance wkh 300.18 and shale
sccutels fastencd in pier and supported in accordance with NN
Sa SOA) and (81 Pari IL Consiracticn Specificatione
(A) Securely Fastened. IMC shall be socutod in accordance 342,100 Constracrion. DAC shall be made of one of the oll.
sith one of the ein: ing:
(1) 14C shall be sccucely fastened within 900 mm (3 di of 1) Stel with protoctive coatings
cach ur box, funcion box, device bo, cabin, 0 Stanko al
conduli body, or 17 nut iceraination
' 342120 backing, Each length shall be cacy and durable
(2) Where structural member: do not reall permit faster: marked at least gece 19 m5 1) wkh the letier WC. Each
ing within 900 mm (3 1). fasteni ng shall be permited 10 [Co shall be marked as required in the fies sentence of
De neice io a dans of 15.1 10) lh
(sì Whee approval. conduit shall not be quid to be
Securely agence in 900 ram (4) othe erie Bead
for shh fon maton ofa mast
Fy ———
its Ah suc rio prio, anbrna d agis (ovibeat
Foo] oy soli par wpe Rigi Faison ©
(8) Supports. 13C shall be supported in accordance wih one gid RM
of the tong.
(1) Conduit shall be supported at ines not excecding Part. General
Sm 0 308.1 Scope. This aricke covers the we, installation, and
The dance bowen supports for stsght cune of Set Scope. Ths ariete omer the we ive
conduit shall be permited in accordance with Table cared ftt, <i for rigid | conduk (RVC) and
44 30(8), provided the conduit is made up with thie. ng:
ded coupling and supports that prevent trinmmison of 3444 Lising Requirement, KMC, faciory chows and
coupling», and associated ings shall be Aste
zs NMTIONA. ELEGINIAL CODE rev Eaison
Copp NEPA For ext uve 150 NEPA Free Aes GG No! dr ai 40% our GHG Gr Gn
For vece Coa. Sears 10 rear AUTRE ue SOA SSA


--- PAGINA SUCCESSIVA ---

ARTICLE 344 RIGID METAL CONDUIT RM) ise
Par. installation dscogion: Mari designato 12 (ate sh 1 shall te pr mitra for
a. Inte ae of rr as period 430350,
i i ®) Maximum, ROC Laces than ttc dort DS ade
{a} Atmospbe ric Conditions and Oaupancies. size 6) shall not be pei i
(1) Galvanised Steel, Stiles Steri, and Red Brass RMC formation! Kote: Ser 0.1) for the wir deigors
Galvin sel ines uel and (ed fram RM Shall be au ae ani Mione are of sion pr al n
eet Under all atmosphere conditions an Span. ahs Dy
© Atuminum RMC, Aluminum RNC shall be pemiticd to be 344,21 Number of Contactors The number of cordcio
Ina where speed the coon dali not ered ht remit by the perceniage Hi pect
. RE Ee
Fp ——
fittings protected from corrosion sob: by enamel shall be tables shall be permittod to be installed where such use is
premio oor and in occupants no Bet to poi proibite i ne respeative cable articles, Toe number af
Severo comnts influente cables shall nor Px) the allonable percertage i specie
paia Te Caper,
{L) Gahanired Steel, Stainless Steel, and Red Brass RMC, 344.24 Bends.
Enos, Cota and Fg Gahan 8) tiow ade, fds of INC dal de so made ht the
er KMC, chor. couphngs, and Ting shall condul will not be damaged and 10 that he cod diet
be permitca to be lind in concn aot conta ah of cone lh e SD be Color The eno ine
dhe carta, in dieci hal SpA in, or in aor ohh do Su Far Ro Bo lo the Bebo one hai
ee lnc arte Fi 5 Can on be lo aad Table 2 Chapt
protection approved for the condition. {B) Number in One Run. The total degrees of bends in a
(2) Sapptemeomry Provertico of Aluminum ROME. Aiur, contami oC J ret Been pull pes
Ero wn approval suplementan cororion
EC fs ata em na Ah ya
{ho cat, a mec hal apn aber We oibed for oF lhe inchs eon tough des Whee cont =
ihe cab ac Meade the held a red cog die whl 1) ape
(Gi n pes per Fo tb urca Poe ROME shal be
(€) Cinder Fill, Galanized steel, stainless sich and ced brass Arcaded in accordance wilh manulanre re insmuetione 10
AM shall be per mtc 10 be initaled in or under cinde T pecore dame ile Eta soa
whe subjeti ho permanent mace where proieated on al © e Na
here, bit in permanent mse hee NCIS Sl Noe No, LS ANS ASHE BLES, Sunt
(in thick, where re conduli is noi ko than 450 mm "Po Tmo. Get doc.
(Nin) ande ot Wo where protected by cotomon prowe. mitil Note No 2: Ser NECA 102018; Sdn fe
Nonapproredior ine condition. rt at oon RI NE, ENTO far mon sn
es na ao SE a a
© Wei Locations. A supports, bots, sape, sows and so AE
orth, sali be of comosontesiiani Maral o pronciod i )
Maina Corrorion Ristori 4430 Seeing and Supposing. KMC shall b stalled ar a
precio Ayre oie Web 90018 and sali e
rmbt nc Ser SOG for pte again meri mea EA i pls ai supporto acta iù
{EY Severe Physical Damage, KG shall be permitcd to be SHIN) and (6)
incall whet tubetto severo physical damage. (4) Stcurety Fastened. WC sha be secur in accordance
$44.14 Dissimilar Metab Where practicable dissimdac metals ih onc of the following:
in oka set cn Le sido] to Sats (1) RE: hall be secular wih 991 mm (8 ft) of
dhe rest of gaan atton Stakes tel and sina froogie box agi
[impiety oeorieyiont pid onto See cont eaten.
mz tec KA and planed sl ge an ence. (2) Faking dil, pre io be incread to a distance
Fares sali De premio De urca mil hans KMC e PECs poet Natit
[prepped] es Fring ii SN mm (310
on ab on be used i oe oe 1 Face apprord, coma ad ro be requ to be
petrolio EE eonaal chat 01 e segui sa bo
‘Sisal ings roca nidi ton mm (io
© Sinker sted boxer and enclosures fox above thes tormimtion ofa ms
(3) Steel fralianized. painted, power or PVC coatod, and so sxcption: For comand work in ished buitaing or prised sali
Rari Tone anti endorut we nor sae 19 vee Sport For coment wk in ded ing or pod ae
coccosive influences Log) of FAC aio eri to e sed
(o Smeal nonmetali, o: speeder
(©) Supports. ML sol be supporto in accordance il one
34420 Sine, ‘of the long:
A) Sima, RAC cls than mic designato 6 grade (1) Conduit Mal be supported at fre not cxcecdling
Sint 1 shall mor be urca mane
ves bn NOVA ELECTRA ob es
Copri EPA Free ce NEPA Free Aes dat Na! or rat into Sou cao xs
Far Paura a ET a i ees


--- PAGINA SUCCESSIVA ---

sue ARTICLE 314 FLEXIBLE METAL CONDUT (FM)
© The diame betwen supports for aight rune of 4120 sacking, Each length shall be dea and ducably
Cond shall be preted in accordance wh Tabk  Mentifcd in cued 3 ra {iO [9 as toque in the £3 sentono:
STL), prove the condi ls mae up ih tire: of MOI A). Nonierrous conus af co toda ocean mate
oan supporti (hat prevent teem di dal sak tk rable mares
reso roman mere ron Ie Aelicetod
between supports
(3) Exposcd vertical srs Fromm industrial machinery o tad
amet shall e pee to be supported al valk
hot cuecoding 6 m (0 dl the sandali ls made up sth
cated coping. he condi in supporia an ARTICLE 348
securely fastened at fhe tap and bottom of the tier, and Flexible Metal Conduit (FMC)
os means of enn Suppor is ceadily ssaa
Joa
tn Hotizontal sn of RUC supported by pening through Part. Gener
Graig members at Intel exseatliag S ma (1 10
and sccurely Baten within 0 mmm (3 ) of termina. BL Scope Th ick coven the we ation, and
Fon pois shall be pene. Conlon pees
$4442 Couplings and Connectors 3482 Reconditioned Equipment FNC shall not be recondi-
A) Thrextiess, Thrcadiess couplings and comets wed fone
ih Cont shall be made gh Wire buried harry ot ing Recut
concrete, they shall be the concrete tight pe. Where instaled 488 Listing Requirements. FMC and as ciated Gittings shall
in wet locations, they shall comply with 1115. Threadless be Isto.
coupling: and comer shall oot be uscd on tcaded
Conduit ndr union te fos the pu post Part iL Toman
5) Running Trends Running treads shall not be ussd on 54,10 Uscs Perminiea, FU shall be permite to be us in
pling: exposed and concealed locations.
ha be po opr hs MAAR Uses ox Pine, EM shall noi be usci in the
sites frevm abrasion unl he box, Tang, or enclonure is following:
“designed to provide such pratection (N nwetlocatione
pt tie, Ser LAG for hn mo CE) ROE obec than spr 1 92101
pti chil hci in storage battery room
(1) An any Bazacdou! (darsifedì location except as permea
$48.50 Splicer and Tape. Splics and aps shall be made in aes articles Cot
accordance ili 500 45 (bere esposti to materialshavinga deterioratiag ect
i dn the aorta, such ot gasolio
$44.60 Grounding. RC: stall be permitted as an equipment ga) Underground or embedded in poured concrete or aggro-
Seog coin Ld
(n Rbere tt to physical damage
Pan HI. Construction Specification 30.0 Sam.
544100 Constaction, RC shall be made of onc of the (A) Minimum. FC los than men designato 16 rade
foltoring: Coe 7) shall not be used unk prod In ZONES
(1) Steel ——— through (4) (9) for meme designato: 12 (rade se #3
© Aluminara () For endosig the lads of motori as permied in
5) Red bei mois
Samora @ 18 Fgh not in xcs of 14 m 46 f for any of the
oto uses
a For utilimtion equipment
e ter " È. part ofalimed ser
Table 344308) Sup ports for Rigid Metal Conc) ©. For tap connections to huminaices as permitted in
—_ ioni OO for ap co
im Dre Breen. ‘
ondate cm 09 or malto sing sere o perntted in
Te (n nbolshav permed in OAT)
Desgtor_Tdesias n e 8) As pari Di a Mica avembly to connezi vice luminaice
= = - = one peed in D1)
7 i 37 I (By Maximum. FM hrger than meri designato 193 Grade
sal en i IH eat be used”
jo) ay as v
Tanager  sandiaiger 61 =
ost ATIONAL LEGAL CODE Gres Eion
Copri NEPA Foren use oo NEPA Free Access gt Not dr ars 40% our GHG rng
For euns Coa. See ripa Sa BEST AUTRE ue SoA SSA


--- PAGINA SUCCESSIVA ---

ARTICLE 316 FLENIBLE METAL CONDUIT FMC) pre
orton] ose Sc S00.11C for the werk deigpars (2) 1200 mm (0 fr metri digo 1 hong 33 re sii
Umi Nate, 3 lg fr he me dolenti Tt 4 Apr tn!

«do not relate lo ac taal dimemiom, 413) 1500 mm {5 fi) for metrie designators 63 {trade sive 24) and
348.22 Number of Conductors The number of conductors anger
prepa di bo dle pesce nage Hi init] so et enti 1 (o ju om ute
A em prin] be pE ALTA ttn Se Loge na nd Ln om na
meine desiato irae he NO pies
Cable shall be premio 10 be inetallca whee such usc is Sein No 4 Longs not xing 1.86) or dost pit
pistol en a E Fani aio dot deg A Ae
Eh noi neve Ile alleate cima ll period Sale e sro fed for omnia shin wr
in Table 1, Chapter 9. aatepioni, tat EM fitting shall de ported 5 a means of eur
34824 Beds mens and support
(A How Made, Sens in conduit shall be made so thr the (BI Supporta, coral cure of FMC supporicd by opening
ond 15 noi dame and the mcr) diameter of the Though framing members at neva not greater han 14m
bt of te (4 and eich hon se 00 (121 of Kr:
Ge made manually wii auxBiacy equipment The radius of nation poires shall be period
he curva o the cote of any bora ol no be 1 han png amd Conmentora, Ang connectors sali mt
Shown in Table 2. Chapter sing he column “Other Bend: pera Coping nd € Angle hatt
®) Nunber in One Run, The tol degrees of bond in a ces ana aps shall be made in
8 lobe ne Run The, wl pe of br in 2 34056 Spice and Tago, Spc and ops sl be
$48.29 Timming All cut ree shall be rimmed oc abecee 34800 Oromdrg and Bonding
finshed 10 temeva rough ss Chee whet finge ital
tarcad into dhe commolut one ate sey (A) Foxe Inatalluzion, FM shall be peri to be sed as
i Sn equipment grounding condatio: ben rele In Score
848.30 Securing and Supporting FMC shall bc securely ance Mi 250 PIRANO) bere Noxibilit is nor sequel alice
Tana pl and supporied iN accordance WE HMR) pen
Fit
(BY Fiesible Installation, An equipment grounding conductor
(0 Semel Fastened, EM shall be tc ened in pes Gall be wh Tab x ec to Ame dhe
van spp means win 0 mm (12 Ln) OF Sh bon ain hein om aquiprent a to promo flex
BME O Og 121) pie ao ion shen fam dpe 1 es
Be supporicd and pe ai el no to Sneed 1A i
CRE ete acc ale der hall be Ye and be kdenuficd  (C) Equipmem Grounding Condortan, Where required oc
foricauementand support ald spore grog conduzione Mal be invalid
ri be gs tS DATA
a pas in out Sue oF comes ek eenime’s (Dy Eripmen Bonding Jumpers. Where coquired or inal
nora dente I an ing Jumper hak be to in a
Exception No. 2: Wher flexibility is wecessary aft installation, lengths. ance
Tot ot er da bes Fore oe
Laredo ping
11 300 mm (3 fi for metri spacers 16 ugh 33 ond sir
rw 141
‘Table $4812 Mim Number of Laid Coors in Mc Designator Trace Siae 4) Pete Metal Conduit (ACH
RECS SFT DOTATO Types TI THIN. TWN Types FE. PERF. FF. FCT
Frag Fg neg mg Mp fuop | mip fue
of we oat Tr om WE ox
Sue WO Cont Comin Gon Cowkit Contin Comin Contr Cond
dn 2 I 3 ; ; I 5 I
i i H H H H H H H
i i : H H H î H H
i 2: : i H H H H 3
10 = = i : i : i 2
mesta SALE ECM AL CON pes
Copa NEPA Foren a use co NEPA Fr ess fr fra tin con cus rg
aE avons,


--- PAGINA SUCCESSIVA ---

su ARTICLE 150 LIOUIDTIGIT FLEXIELE MITALCONDUIT (LENIO
350.28 Benda.
ARTICLE 350 (A) How Made. Bonds in conduit shall be so made that the
Liquid tight Flexible Metal Conduit conduit will not be damaged and the internal diameter of the
gh ee Cont ee scelte aed ek a be pect
eae bo made mals wii asics cure The
i ofthe curve do tie een of ar ben Sha no: be
rt, Ger hn Tepe no Shere wing to cota
Pani. Geoersl “Other Boek.”
Sonsuaton specibestone dor hight be meal (8 Number in One Run The tol degrees of bends in a
comely, pans Tor la at Sema detec Beso pull pis.
o cme LU shall noi be oe 350,28 Timing, AL cut ends of conc shall be trond
$502 Reronaltioona Equipment, LES all ot be eccond 2020 RR io teme regi on
ving Requremente iad ings 390,30 Seruring and Sporting, LIV shall be securely
$50 Lining Regusementa LEM and soc fuings $5130 Semele 1nd PDA E LC be ec
a
' (8 Secwrety Fuseond LEM shall be securely fen in
Part, fastaliation place by an app en ans win 500 mm 1 in of each
its, LEM shall be permitod ob used box Cabot col pod, or Ib coh ict nation and
$5010 Uses Permit, LEM shall be premio be wd 2%, S00, con, the condi I and
Po {4% Ft). Where uscd, cable tics shall be listed and be identified
(Were cn of mln, operation o male (ok Rp
Manco voques Houle ox prove ion from machine ok
Ts eo orl DE Sop ———
@ In hazacdous (classic) locations where spoctically  coneaied spas én nisi buildings or sirctums and supporting &
pormiricd by Chapter 5. practical.
© Foc det burial whore Ud and mackea for the Sion No, 2: Wh foci i essry ots scl eon, ngs
@ Boon o cables cd ta temperate bighor than 428 he nt on wr che cry i ry smd sh nat
the listed temperature rating of LEM: shall be pot mited ne:
LPR oie of 1) 300 am (3 fi for ei spins 1 Sh 35 re sr
ble are not oporatedat a pears higher thon the mg 10)
{tel temperature ming of LEN 1 Tope oor meric gr dl chug 33 rate ss
; Frys
350.12 Uses Not Permitted. LEM shall not be used where (3) 1500 mm (3 ft) for mecic designators 63 fade sc 24) and
hit to pops damage fad
35020 Size, Exemption No. 3: Longths not excading 18 m (6 J) fom a lumi mate
dh Win. LES sl than moi ei 19 grate Si a he i
Sine Va sali mot be we “osti
Epon: LIMO of etic designator 12 {ove sie 4) hl br pri.  Eacoption No 4 Lengths vat exconting 1.8 m (60) fio tte last point
Ex LEC tc dsp Lots te porte: eil vana didnt om
Se crtingio fumnai ts] ot cpr
(©) sacimum The maximum si of LA shall be mente
un The mo oc the purposes of he cxceptione, ltd LEWC ings shall
goin are se dì Ee ep ad Lew
id Ni 5 S00) 0S SORE (By suppor cn cins of LEM supports by open
a ao dion, ing thug Gaming member: at intel no! greats than
Va 00 and Searcy rd yin 300 man CU in
350.22 Number of Conductors or Cables. tenniration points sha be premited.
(8) Metric Designators 16 rough 103 (Trade Sizes % trough 350.42 Couplings and Connectors. Only Bitngs sted for use
5. The number of onductor shall note xcor that Permitted ata LI on he ot Angle Ses ab en be
by the percentage ll spociicd in Tabk: 1, Chapter 9. concealed. Straight LEM bitinge shall be permited for dicert
Cables shall be permitted to be insiallod wher such use js Dural whee marked.
eA pate Cable TALL Toe umber f 35050 Spliore and Tp Splicos an tape shall be made in
cables shall not exceed the allowable percentage fill speciied  sonrte wigan P
{bt hap
35060 Grounding and Bonding.
®) Meri Desig 12 (Trade Size la, The number of
Tm 3 A Foxe Intalio, LEM shall be pes io be usc ac
ring Guster cola, cope graunding sooner hen Teale in acco
10.256 Sano HLEGrAAL CODE restiaana
Copri EPA Free ce NEPA Free Access att No: or rat 1 Sou cao xs
Far Paura Ey ees,


--- PAGINA SUCCESSIVA ---

ALE sie — ICI POLI, GL ORDE CONDLIT AVE sar
ft Trl bos 0d logs wed badd te
O ai iden ped I pices vas Tom cg
(© Fre Imation, An equipreni grin cos ALAR bole. en te, nd ell
3 Fit mon An leery sang niet i of comune peed ag
transmission of vibration from equipment of lo provide flex PP
Fr 1 Dry an Damp Location, Cet tal te pred
ole loc nant Bocelli DD et, nr
eral EI (6 Export, PC cont tall be permit fo cxposca
nl, Sqn gi oF
(51 pen Big Jungers, Whece ccc ox imm. dl Oregon malin, For underground nal
(2) ire Boog Jumper ise sd ek Cae, Lotion fo moment haste
led umn om al be od lo di usd
folic GOL NBA AETONE 1300) Suppo of Com Bie, PC coc sali be pci
rhe ST NRE PIPE Seon of Cond Bi UC cond lc pom
od EE
fn re coon cig ony Toes cond de
Ca pon nse ches paper nd ll
Pan HI. Construction Specifications 11.348) and 514.16(0}(2).
350120 Marking. LEM shall be marked according to 110.2. (3 Insulation Temperatare Limitations. Conductors or cables
E LC od bx bed cio 0) Lieder Tempo: imtons, Conductor a cabs
Tone fe od on are aug he RE rd emp gs no Hd ert
direct burial shal be so marked. conduit, provided the conductors or cables are not operated at
pum
© Form Dae he se 10. pl domo
£0 Tori Bomar, Wh kn ne ery
ARTICLE 852 fittings for PVC conduit shall be used.
Rigid Polyvinyl Chloride Conduit (PVC) Informational Sos: Al lcd PVG conda fing are suitable
fel
Pant. Cerri
45028 Cue Non Fermin VC sonda shall nos be usa
$521 Scope, This article cosers the we, installation, and under the conditions specifica in $52 1203) through (E),
te (5 ie Conia Loto na. on fc
1516 iin rime PVC cre, toy cms ana 1
£220 Ls ems
FV ——
8 Sopp of Lome, ue
Panfl. Ensialiion (©) Physical Damage, Where subject to physical damage,
45119 Om Fermin Toe sue of PW cnt shall br a pre ET
LA Farm Tee i eee te sb 10 saben
mee apa: therefore more xoble to (E) Themers and Similar Locations. In theators and simi
a ea
sì one, PC sti sali be pernted in malte
fioors. and ceilings $52.20 Sire,
{B) Encased in Concrete. PVC: condut shall be permitted to {AY Minimum, PVC conduit smaller than metric designator 16
fiera 0 mm 1 od
(©) Corrosive Infloences. PVE conduit shall be pennitcd in (8) Maximum, YC conduit lege than metri designator 185
locations subject to severe corrosive influences as covered in {cade size 6) shall not be uscd.
#004 and where subject to chemicals for which the materials Nnfiormational Note: See 300. LC) for the trade sises and miei.
are speciically approved. doignator thal arc Tor identi ation purpose onls and do wo
{DY Cinders. PVC conduit shall be permitiod in cindor fill. rel to atioal ditemi
45128 Number of Conductor The number of cir:
(E Sin Lessons. Cant be penmited inportons 38222 Number of Conductor The mabe of con
Santis ans amet of ates weston an hal ote tha ped by the perceniage Sl specced
locations where salle are frequent washed. the entice conduit Chap


--- PAGINA SUCCESSIVA ---

mae ARTICLE $59 RIGID POLYVINYL CHLORIDE CONDUIT (PVC)
tables shall be prmiticd 10 be iretalled whee such usc i conduit supported by opening theough faming members at
net probit by ine tespeative cable articles, The number of neva AOL even aoe in Table 572 308) and ccc
cables shall mo exc (e alionable percontage fil rpeched  fasiened wii 900 mm 5 0) of iscminalion pots shall be
in Table 1. Chapter 9. prrceniage Gl pe pocmied. po
15224 Bend. 352.44 Expansion Fri.
(A) How Made, Bend shall be so made that the conduit will (8 Thermal Expansion and Contraction, Expareien fittings
Rot be damaged and the icra diameter of th cont wll PVC ccs shall be proviaetl 10 compensate for thermal
not be ice ace Fld bende shall be made only ith eipansion and contract Where the length change. inaecord
denied bonding couipmen: Toe div ol the cae lo the ance wih Table 332 1, caprvcd 19 be 8 MI RI) oF
Coen of such bende shall nor be bis than shoe in Table greater ia a sttaight ua botmoori securely moun item suc
Lap Sen cabinet, lb or ober sone ter minatore
(8) Number in One Run The tool degrocs of bende in a (B) Earth Movement. Expansion fittings foc underground
condi run shall nol exceed 300 degeocs Breen pull points. mas of het buried PY conn emerging from the ground
352.98 Trimming, AL cut ends shall be mimmed inside and pool 0% provided ae grad when coquired to compeneate
outside to remore rough cdges. 1g 1’
sù i gopparsog, VC condule sha be Wb See 003
ima cio: ace Bo i SO in and so
onan È pram VE cons shall De vay Mie $5288) Support of Riga oi Chioride Conc
fastenedand supported in accordance with $2 30(A) and (8) PVE
(A) Securely Fastened PVU conduli shall be secure fastened ppm Soman Ere
of each Conduit Sue Masur Spade
Br. coeur. or other condali lemmination, Conduit RE er
listed for securing at other than 900 mm (3 ft) shall be pecmit- Merc
ted io be resin seonedance eh e dng Dregasior Tess moon a
(Bì Supporta PVC conduii shall be supported as coquied in =H = nan 3
Table 39208), Colt Este for apport at acing aber fo e sm è
han as shown in Tobk 862308) sal be permet to be sa Bs lam $
inna in accordance with the hing oreo tunz of PV 91-129 es Ha H
Tible 352.448) Expansion Characerisica of PVC Rigid Nonmetalfic Conduit Cortficient of
Toermel Expansion = 6084 x 10° mm/mm/°C (8,38 x 10° in /in °F)
Lg Dane Leng char Leg Chane
Temperaure of PVC Conan | Temperature of EVC Conbu| Tenperiure of PVC Conditt
Due CO (mw | Gun CP a/R | Cg (a./100R
5 030 5 on 103 pe
10 fr I 04 110 rd
» 0a 1 jr) 13 pre
» iz on i wn
» rs E in 5 307
143 122 i 3
» 213 » 1 5 Sar
I i I ua 1% So
8 pa » ry 16 fr
» 304 » 203 fi br
» Pry » 2 5 ax
@ 30 @ 243 16 x
ss 35 © 254 163 is
E je Ei ai i» sa
% 436 n Sor i fit
w nr w ss ™ ww
5 Ba # i id 7
» fr 0 560 5 i
5 rd 5 5x 4 di
wn don 100 io 200 paci
roam [Np
Copy REP For nce oor NEDA Fee Access po No! fr ars sn Gos cn eng
Foun co Soe own 70 portera dea ue LR SSM ATS


--- PAGINA SUCCESSIVA ---

ARTICLE 595 LIGIL DENSITYPOLYETINLE NE CONDUIT (LDPE CONDUIT) pe
452.46 Bushings. Where a conduit enter a box, Biting, or
other oto: a hashing of adapter shall Be pron to ARTICLE 358
cocci the mie from abrasion nee te box, Ging or nel: i i
Rare design provides equivalent procection i High Density Polyethylene Conduit (HDPE
oformational Note: See L4G) for the protein of conde Conduit)
nm ANG an eer ho
352.48 Jaime. AR jum between, longihs of conduit and Pant, Genera
Betmecî eondut ana couplingo, ii. and boxes shall be
od eo 358.1 Scope. This arid covers e we, installation, and
byanapprotcd method corpuction speciation for high density pobietapiene
452.56 Splices and Tape Splices and taps shall be made in (HDPE) cond andasoclate hinge
accordance with 500.19, 3580 Listing Requirememe DFE conduit and associato
35260 Grounding. Where equipment grounding is coquiced, Bing shall be (ok
paris roi ior shall be installed in he tl
Exton No. 1: Th eguiprarni going concn shall op Pari. nsialieion
HE e Ma portly om (i cima somdarion as gered im Par EE Installato
50134, Epto So 5 for di comit and 280194, Escipoion $5410 Osea Perm, The ue of LiDPE cond shall be
No. 1 or are n equipe unin confi. permiticd under he follwing condition
Sion So. 2: The quipnent quantine conarior hall vot br (13 Indicrete nthe orin continuous lengths fom a cecl
Mud sho ie god nen pov pen ai In beso bt ore ions inflaereo as
dn 50.1% occa 508 and where san lo chomicali for
hic the cont line
0 incinder AT
Par BL. Construction Specifiatione Ra tial installation E acto concrete
52100 Construction PVC conduit shall be made of rigid Wot sl Note to 189: See HLS and MELE for under
(honplastidrsd) poi chide (PC), PVC cont and Bound ital
{ings shall be composed of suitable nonmetallic material ibat (5) Above ground, except 35 prohibited in $3312, where
Ee 10 one and chemical Samphere For use paia gni arie ii pai
aboveground, it shall alto be fame aria, ARATE 10 (Gy Condurtore or cable med ai a Temperature higher than
Impact art hg testare 10 ottoni or beat Under lite temperature rating of MIOPE conduli shall be
conditions bel to fe encmuntered in ogee. and esist to e e e ed OPE or a ae
tow temperature and sunlight elfocts. For use undergronad, Eonductors or cabks are not operated at a temperature
profi citi pe pid es ian (ee vege bre cag of the NOPE
re agents and hal be oi sation ergo wit bee!
She ac ay ampact and crishing, In bardling and during
rekon, Where acre for res bac) whose sca, 388.12 Usea Non Permane, LIDPE conduit shall nt be used
ment in concrete, the material shall abo be capable of sith Under the following conditions:
Toni Somat oad ina! ach to be encouniStod en Where expo
afterinsiabation. © Within a bulding
50120 Marlon Each erigh of HVC cont shall be cel (91m sac cid) location, except as permit
Sr bab marked ae 3 mM INT) a fa i de ted brother cides in di Coe o
Rust sentenze al 1 ZIA). The pe of material shall also he) Mbote subjoct to ambient temperatures in excess of ME
psy a pie
included in the marking nnlens it is visually identifiable. For wz
oma rogue, he making shall 458.20 Sine.
e permane. for conf ive to underground ue on ; A
el hing shall aly dutabie 5 or legibie (A) Minimuna, LDPE condut smaller than mere desigrmior
until the material is inmta Re Conduit shall be permiticd lo be 16 (rade sic 16) shal not be used.
i kc to dc special a OF (tee UDP crt Langer tan mene dito
cal 155 {trade size 6) shall not be used
lontana] Note: Exomyley of thee making inl he bai wc. Lnfiormational Noe: Sc 900. LCY for the ude siscs and metri
olimited o> amited smoke” and “sunlight estan. designato that arc Tor identi ation pa poses onls and do wot
35822 Number of Conductor The number of conductors
Shall not vo ila pe th perse ntage specie
Table 1, thaper 9 Percentage fl pe
Cable al be permitted to be iretalled where such use is
not proibite ly le respeate cable article. The number of
Gables shall nor xc) the allonable percentage Hill specie
To 1 Cher
oretta Steal ELENCA Co ress
Copp NEPA Foren use oe NEPA Free Aes GG Nt dr ai 40% our GHG Gr Gn
For vece Coa. Sears 10 rear AUTRE ue SOA SSA


--- PAGINA SUCCESSIVA ---

mae ARTICLE 551 —NONMETALUIC UNDERGROUND CONDUIT WITIE CONDUCTORS (NUK)
358.26 Bens
(A) How Made. Ecixk shall be so made that the conduit will ARTICLE 354
not be damaged and the emml ate of the cond wil Nonmetallic Underground Conduit with
Ho be Teche oc, Send shall be penniued fo
made manually witht ania coupe, and the adie of Conductors (NUGC)
he coro to he centerline of uch he shall ot be less than
hom in Table SOA AA), Fx conduits of medie desiiatort Barf, Gener
126 and 155 (trade sizes 5 and 6), the allowable cadii of bende Fant I
hall be in accordance uh speciation: provided by the $54.1 Spe This aricke covers the we, insallion, and
mance tomrudion speciicatione for nonmetalle underground
{B) Number in One Run. The total degrees of bends in a conduit with conductors (NULL)
Comdial esccca 0 ges evn pin 1543 Ling Requiremene, NUCC and occ Tings
$58.98 Trimming. All cut ends shall be rimmed inside and "Pall be 145d
‘outside to rermont rough edger
358,46 Poshings. Where a conduit entere a bo, fitting, or Pari EL Ensialiation
ot neo a bing o adapt tall be PII 10 35810 Ones Perma. Thc ine of MUCK: and ings shl be
rnc ic from apt le the bon, ig or velo. $50, Ux Fermi, T
Fuse design provides equivalent proicelon alton OP
iormational Note Se SMOG for the pion oftondit Forder bal der oa aaa (For minim
I abi To Copies, see FA) and Ta
358,48 Jams. Al jini between lengihe of conduit and (8 Encasedor embedded in concrete
betuccì conduli and coupling», Tings and boxer shall he) Innes Gl
made by anapproscd method @ In underground locations subject to severe corre
Te tm ott ca de pet mi ct FT re
eps) oi: HDPE son Lan be joined ni ek Sorbie sims & specail anna
we fr for eli the sms peal ppd rete
358.56 Sptces and Top. Splice and taps shall be made in acs in nots han sa mm € in) of Stet
accordance with 500.1, 354.12 Uses Not Permined. NULL shall not be uscd in the
353.60 Grou ;. Where equipment grounding is required, Following:
mare groiling condizio shall be Bled BE) Inespored ations
Zonet © We balange
Expron No. 1: The equipment omg condi shall br pit. Espo: The conductor 01 te cable pion o te aswbly, view
wa o te run ep Jom a nt wh wed for EAS yt, shall le perestind nto So (Be ud NE lor termina
ctr aspen in 230 134, Cargo No. 2 a wien 3
Exception No. 2: The quipment grounding conductor shall nat be 5) In any hazardous (classified) location, except as pormi
pm BA she oun condurtor ta vee io aid equipment an tod bi other aride of ih Cod
rmsd 250 142
15090 ae
son Spec (A) Minimum, NUC small than mec desigmator 16
Pan HI. Constucion Spechcatons oad sae #3 shall not be ed,
358,100 Construction, DFE cand shall be composed of i
(B} Maximuan. NU larger han mete designator 108
high density polsctbene that is cesta lo malstare and (ora oy ET a
eberical atraoepherea, The material shall be restart fo Te
tute and coos agents and shall be of lien SHON 10 Wort Note: See 200140) for he werk. designata
tan shu, sich ae boy pach and crashing. In bandlng ao tate ata Too ate fot Meniicallon poe on and
nd ducing installation Where Intended for deeti bucal wil do nat rele acu die mio,
out encastiment in concrete. the material shall also be capable $54.98 Number of Conduarore The number of condita of
Fading continued adi trat ds Hel 10 be SO So et oe De 1
eve hes neon pal
358.120 braking, Each length of LDPE shall be ckacly and 3.24 Benda
ducably marked at leastescy § m (19 ft) as teguired in 100.21
‘ec ppc of material shal ako be Inde in he making. (A) bow Made. ends shall be manually mde so that th
Sonu tali not be damaged and th incre diameter of the
Conduit will not be fielded The adhe of th ture
Gi the centeriin of such bed hall nor be les han sown in
able 3A 243)
(B) Number in One Run. The total degrocs of bas in a
Sonu run shall not eseccd 90 degrocs heme pull pain
fren [Tp —
Coat NEPA For ent ve a or NEPA Free Access stn Net fr as Buon Gu gian cranny
Far aa ono ae roar om APS use coat RE


--- PAGINA SUCCESSIVA ---

ARTICLE 50 ENFORCED TUERMNOSETTING RESIN CONDUIT (HTH) sss
ate 54.048) iim Bening Fi or Nome ©) Condens and Gables. Cordier and cas used in
Ondesgro und Cony Comin (003 Teed wl org Eh 19 2 Co:
Ooderround Condit Condom (NOCE) FL we cs rk Taher si

Contain Sas Simm Bending Radive 300.3(C)
seive RZ (0, onducior Fil, The manimum narbec of conducior or
pig  DaaeSse mm e Io cali not moet pec ype
= = me iChat
Ji Hi E 12 56120 Marlin. NUGG hall be ciale and day macho
Hi | BE et e NOI Te pe of
H pi FS Coal mala hei Ronee
4 1% ma idemiaaton af conduetor oc cables used in ihe arsemie
FH È FC ST
H i TE ae
a y puo anke i atoordace va SO.
356.29 Timing, For tein th cont shall be rim
oe Bi es a abs weg an sped
eth wl de ih coo ot cable ron
or packet, All condut cnde shall be trimmed inside and out 10 i ARTICLE 355
rtemose cough cdges Reinforced Thermosetting Resin Conduit
$54.48 Bushings. Where the NUGG centers a box, fitig, or ®TRC)
in ox ie a De poi 10
ete aio ole fim abrarion i ibe doti
Gf the box, fitting, or enclosuce provides equivalent protection. Pan. General
edemi on Ser rr hep demos 335 Scope, TH seh covers the ue inalbion, and
[aC oto ni ET de Sri ein
354.48 Joims Al joints between condu, fitings, and boxes “OE (TRE) and assodatcd iting.
pry Easley $555 Ling Requiremena. KTHG, cory cbous, and sd
ee priser
35450 Condo Terminaons. Al teeminations btu cho
frastiprptiprrprir ib all de ade dr a
omen method hp oor able pen. tnsialltion
35456 Splices and Tape Splccs and taps shall be made in $55.10 Uses Permined, The use of KTRC shall be pied
Jenetion boxes or other enclosures in accordance with $55.17A) through (1).
3560 Grouning, Whee couipmeni going ls ied bof les flo ana
re ig Sie rag ot ol Spe KT ol be pind inl, fs nd
8 Goose tahences THE shall be pris In bcs
Evpiion Ne. I The eguiprann siding condurior shalt br Wt {ir SC to severe eco Influeices w covered i 8008
edn de rn rid fon te Conair sint for DUN de and hele SUR to eral Heh the materials are
A fam fe dhe be |
Exp No. 2: Tle pment puntine condarior shall not br Cy Cinders, KTRO shall be permitiod in cinder till
ok dal vk Stem
enter (D) ste Locaions. KTRG —
eo eso Ee we locate sid Ta
nt shot vale fa va. the oe ohh
Pan, Construction Specihenione e idea he ali de
: Tal and pm te on Malte Fram een
354.100 Construction. the conic All alpporti, be, Sep, sre, and so ri
(A) General. NUO i an assembly that & provided in continu» Shall be of corrosioneesistani materiali or be protected agai ret
A Dement, kan iy hap rn pel asa ab
(5) Sones Undeponnd Comu The nonetalie (© Dry and Damp Locations. KTW: shall be prc fo
underground conduit shall be listed and composed of a rate. in dry and damp locations not prohibited by $35.12.
ye Secon es di sail : we
a mid on rc sb dpe {Epon TRC oll be permite for posed ech d
orson ad ol fo  o
dhserion bale oh llint engl RE pl ATR ye Xb eli amo
fret fiery
Cou NEPA Forenc ume mo NEPA Free snr Not Ar a i cour gang rns
a Sy em Se


--- PAGINA SUCCESSIVA ---

$5510 ARTICLE $57 — REINFORCED THERNOSETTING RESIN CONDUIT IRC)
(© Underground {astaliatione. For underground installa: $55.30 Secuiog and Supporting. KTRO shall be insalicd as a
bons, sc $005 and 809 45. compie este in amordanee with 30014 and shall be
«Hi Sappon of Conduì Bodies. KTH: shall be peed to 5c faster ples and supported in accordance vids
Support Roncalli condi bodies not larger than ine BAEC
made size of an enicring carcway, These conduit bodes shal (A) Seeumely Fasened, KIRO shall be sccucels toned within
hat support luminaies or oie equipment and thal not 900 mm (5 f of cach outiei box, uncon box, device box.
conta devices otte than splicing devices as permiticd by cond body, of other conduit tection Condit listed for
113908) and 311.106) securing at olhce than 909 mm (3 1) shall be peemittca to be
© lnsvisticn Temperaare Limiatione, Condizioni or cables (IPA accordance with te sing.
led at a temperature higher than he lisca temperature (B) Suppor. RTW shall be supported as comico in Table
cing of KER conduit shall be permined to be installed in 889.808), Conduit Tete for support at pac etber than as
KTRÙ conduit, if the comduciort of ble ate noraperated ata shonm in Table 395 SK) steli be peed to be installed in
temperature higher than the Tad temperature ring of (he accordance ws te liing. Horizontal nane of IRC Suppor
KI conduit ied by openings theaugh. framing members at itervale na
i crceoling those in Table 380.0) and securely fasiened
355.12 Cone Non Permined. KTW shall not be used under the es of eran ian a
duna Om Nore Sibi 9% mm (3 FI of pois shall be permitted
. 355.44 Expansion Fitting. Expansion ings for KIRC shall
A) Haze dona (Classifiedì Eocations, be provided to compensate for cael expansion and contrae:
(1) In any haracdous (classed) location, except as pormi. vol where the longi change, inaecoedance ir Table 1941,
ted brother artidesin lhi Cade i expected to be f mm (4 in) or greater In a sight con
tw in Class I, Division 2 locations, except as pennited fn betweon snes moumed teme sich as hoses, (Abin.
SAMBA) claws. o other en termi nations
©) Supponi of Luminaire. For the support of luminalces or 355.46 Boshings. Where a conduit enters a box, fing, oc
other equipment not described in 5 11D). lt encore. a bushing or adapict Shall be proskid 10
i cotcctihe wire fom abrasion ule the box, fiting, or ouch:
(©) Physical Damage. Where subject 10 physical damage Protegtihe uke th 5
nese eed for uch use. ue design provides equivalent protection.
N tal Note Sce 04) for the pria on fron
©) ambiem Tempermares. Where subject to ambient RP e
temperatures incxceeral DOC (27 E) unios letedorberwise
e i 358.48 Joins All joints between lengths of conduit, and
(E) Theses and Simile: Locations. In ibraters and simibr  petsecà condu sid couplings, tog, and boxes, shall bo
locatione, except as provided in SIA d and 520. mie by an appro ra
55.20 See 586.56 Splice and Tope. Splccs and tape shall be made in
(A) Minimum. KIRÙ sale than metic designator 16 ade SECO sith $00.15
sive 0) hallo be used $85.60 Grounding, Where cquipment grounding is coud,
(5) Maman, UK les th meric dsgrmos 159 rade © Ee BOWMAN Somber hal beneath the
sine © shall no be wd conde
ortisl Note Sce SHC) for the ate scan mec Excepion No. 1: The quiprent ronaling conductor shall permit
angry hk e ot eo ton ores oy swoon be nen separata) fom th cima condos as preted dn
a ons 230 14, Exim No 2, Jar di irae and 280 294, Exon
55522 Number of Conductors: The number of conductors 1 SPAT NOLEN pring cnr
shall not exceed hat pected bn the peceentage fl speciied Excgkio No, 2 An equipment granding condurior shall not br
in Table 1, Chapter 9 Cables shall be permitod to be installed ye rie he rant condavior {at to road equipe a
bere such use ix noi profited by the respective cable act} 1 230.102),
tes. The number of cables shall hot eseecd the allowable
percenage Bl specie in Table 1, Chapter 9
355.26 Bends Tube 355.368) Support of Reinfarced Thermosening Resi
A How Made, ens shall be so made that the conduit all Cond (RTRG)
tot be damaged and the kerma diameter of the conduit ill mi
No be citocticely seduced. Red bene shall be made only wis asim Spacing Betweez
Kdendhed bending equipment The cade of the curve to the Cons ize Suppors
centertine of such bel hall not be ese han shown in Table gem
‘2. Chapier Desigator  Trdesive  mmorm n
®) Number in One Run The tol degrees of ben in a rr p om
Tr ot ee 50 rate even pil pei. ad fra rw H
I x cds shall be wed inside and hd ues rm $
35.10 Trimming. AL cut cde shal be imc inside and ds E lan $
outside to remore rough cage 12 !
JRL SE ET
re NSO ELECTRIC ALCODE DEE
Coat NEPA For ent ve a or NEPA Free Aes psn No! fr ai Eno" ou Gian cranny
For tires contati ti SSE oACr “o (PF "AUT an ue COE ESAS


--- PAGINA SUCCESSIVA ---

ARTICLE $56 — LQUIDTIGHTT FLEXISLE NONMETALLIC CONDUIT (LF) sao
Tube 355.44 Expansion Charcieristics of Reinforced Thermo ing Re sin Conch (RTRG)
Gonticiem of Thermal Expansion = 2.2 « 0° mm/mm °C (1,5 « (0 fin Fy
Length Change
TRIG Lough Cnaser ot Leng Crasgr ot
Tempe Costu | Temperee  RIRCCabat | Tempemze RIN Cosa
Copel mmo | Capen Gatos | ougech Ga/10010
5 or 5 pr ra in
i pri he td Jed
I pa i an [e 207
n pe H as o 2
5 hi] pS bd 23 in
0 on » wir ww 2%
HI 5 I pd id 2
* td i hs pr 22
pi in 8 wn pa prt
4 i E hr) i ih
12 ss as wr I
H i pa ta pa ih
LI 1% © cn pa im
in a ey uo so
7 in n Jed a i
i pit] i jd iso in
ra 2% = i i an
» 2 5 rd on sa2
3 27 3 ei pa 3%
wn to Is in E 36
Pan HI, Construction Specification
855.100 Consiraction, KTR: and tings shall be composcd of ARTICLE 356
suitable nonmetallic material that È reistani to moire and Liquidtight Flexible Nonmetallic Conduit
chemical atmospherer. For ie abonegraund it shall also be (ENO
fame Catan Cox ma to pats and hing. EE to
‘norton rom beat under conditions Hcl to be enconmtered
in service, and cosa 10 low temperature and igh pan
ics. For une gE he material sali be accepuabie STE CE
costato moire and Comore agents and sha be ol sli: S56. Scope. This aride covers the ue, installation, and
cio SORE to Raa, Shh as by impact AACE Contac spedficatione [er Biouitight flexible nonmetalie
fog in aig ana dust bin Where en or con (LPN and rd Gg
oct budal, wot encatemeni in concrele the material soos ot fg NC aan andatedRtinge shall
shall ako be capable of withanding continued loading that is Listing Requirements LENG and as sodatedfitings st
likely to be encowmcred after instattation. be listed.
358.120 Macking Each kg of KI shall be cacy and
durabiy marked atest eran 3 m (100) asteguiredin ie tie Pari H fnstalinion
senperce ol 10 213) The type of matccal shall ali be ele 556,10 Ones Perm. LING shall be permite to be used in
în the marking unless it it culls int abi For conduit ned LEM shall be pe
coopnined tor irc sbovoground. these markings shall bc ©XPoOsd occoncealed locationsfor the following purposes
permancna, For Conduit FIT lo anderground use on (1) Where desibilitristeguirod tor iniallation operation, or
Free makings shall be scons durable to coma legible malnienaree.
bl the materiali italo. Condali shall be perito to be) Where protection of the conained_condcies is
surtace Macken 10 WHGa special charattorinits of the matt required tron capo, chin ils baule. or solid
cal (3) Foroutdoor location hese listed and marke as suitable
' for te purpose.
boas Note: Expl of ie kings ict but re oc he PUPS bere ned and marked for
Ce ed who at ar re @ For dec hut where ised and mehed foc ihe
© haglisd in lengths longer han 18 m 6 tO where
Eine In accordarce wih 30630:
© LENGE 2 a lisca. manutariured prewrcd as semby
metri designato 16 through 27 (trade ste dhrmug 1)
oi
tn For casement in conarete bes ised tos dest burial
and installca in compliance wih $96 42
Es, ANAL ETAL CODE man
Copp NEPA Foren use oo NEPA Free Access gt Not dr ai 40% our GHG Gr Gn
Far aa ono ae roar om APS use coat RE


--- PAGINA SUCCESSIVA ---

sma ARTICLE S55 — LIQUIDTIGT FLEXIBLE NONSETALLIC CONDUIT GANG)
®) In Toto abject in severe cormaive inlucnees as 1) Where insalled in lengths esceering L8 m (0), the
cover în M008 and where Sugect in chemical for condi shall be securely iene at teva coo
ih the Fairs are speciali approve Sg 900 mm (5 10 and within 300m (12 in) en ach
© nsducinrs or hes rae ara imperative higher than Sile nf every ute box, Jia box, cnt, GG
the lisca lemperatire rating of LING shal be penmitier Where ver, cable ties shall be vse fo the appiicarina
tn be salen LEN, proviica the conduc or and for sceuring and supporti
Cols ate ne aperato aa mperatire higher han the Securing oT Nipporng nf the condult shal not be
Tet tempera nre rating of the LEN require where tt is fed, alin in lengths net
cutcerting 900 mm (31) at trials where fA 8
ahmed Exton at ee, x reputed ar installed in lengths net exceeding 18 m
es and ft tee 60) fiom a luminaire termina] connection for tz
CE ams tom hac i >
Sondtuctors in luminaires peed i A103 17)
556.02 Orca Non Permitted. LEN shall not be used astolione 5) Horianntal runs nf LEN Si pportor by apenings hough
17 Where subject i physical damage faming members at interali not exceeding 000 mm
@) Where 2g conati oF Sorbie and conducior 55) 30 securely ann within 300 mm C2 in of
semperatutes fn excess that for which it is cer. sermination prints shal be per mitica.
© In Vong longer than 18 m (6 #0. cacepi at permined 4) Securing or supporting of LINC: shall not be required
SHARD) or where a Ionger Kg 1s appre 26 where gated In engine net esceedling LA m (6 8)
eae porn mm th last prin whee I mck 13 sctuciy Bence
©) In any hazards (clasier) location, except as permit for connections within an accessitie ceiling in a lumin-
sso (ere) res) or her equipment. For ine purpae ni 33680,
Two iquitighi Deki omer condi fini
35800 Soe Wal be peri ot a meant support.
(A) Minimum. LING snaller than metric design 16 {ade $56.42 Goplings and Connectors. Oni fiting si for use
Six 0 shall no be ieri ait periti os ri esignaior LETT be ital Angie seins NI o he duc
"2 oar sine 50m ens dre conceal raceway lions, Straight LINC litigare
{) For enclosing the leads A motors as permitied jn Perini tir direct burial or encasementin concrete.
49026) $56.56 Spies and Tape. Spices and aps shall be mare in
® in tghe wt satin 18m 610 par cfs met Sorat ono AT
scr on tap neces in minaret at requireat io
lO IVO or for aon equipment $56.60 Grounding. Where equipment routing is required,
a Separare guiding conduc shall De imille in ine
(E) Maximum. NC larger than meric designator 168 {rare condi
sine 4) shal ne be st tT i contr slr
vib Kote See OOC) La the wr dives SD Do Toque grin conduc sk pri
an ale so Mo ate fut enicaion tomes iy a] 550130 Seto No. 2 for dr cits and 280 194 Exspoon
i diana No. for spara ne gent unig ei,
umber of vi The number of ondiciry
Shall not exceed that permitied by the percentage fill specified Eepion No. 2: The equipment grounding conducior shall not be
shall cage hat peck ar ll oe r ati Breet fered
is mitted in 250.142
Cables shall be permite te be aie where such use &
nt probibiicd bs ie tespeciie ce ries The number of
iis shall not exceed te allomble percentage il specified Pan HI, Constraion Specificatione
In Table 1, Chapier 556.100 Construction, LENG = a prewired manufactured
35626 Benda. amembiy shall be prides ‘n continuino ngi Capa of
(A) How Made. Bends in conduit shall be sn made that the PeiN8 shipped ina coil rel, or carton wiihout damage.
Codi is nni damaged and the internal diameter ré the 856.120 Baking, LANG hall be marked al least cer GO mm
Conduit is not cll reduced, Bend: shal be pein i (2 4) in accoretihec wth 11021 The raring sha include 2
be made manually avan SUS equipment The Tic nf pe designati in accordance with he definition of Cont
the cure in the denier of any bend Sali not be les than Ligue Hise Sonal INC) tn Artie 100 ant the
shown in Table 2. Chaplet ing the column Other Bends: arie ste. Cani: Mal È incide for vin use or direct
{B) Number in One Run. The total degrees of bends in a pura shal be marked.
Conduit run hal nnt excecd 36 degrees pemeen pui prin. “The type, size, and quant of conducters ice in proves
i i pupi manudac ieri avembilsshali be enti by means nf pri
$50.20 Timing. All cut ends of cout shall be vimmed og ee a ed eh ot oe een
inside a md csi remove ough gs sey and either the carton, eni. or reel The encimed
306.30 Securing and Supporting. LINC. shal be securely coma be marked in acomdance woh 3108
dated and supported in aceredance with mae of the len.
pos
020 NMTIONA. ELEGINKAL CODE res Eaison
Copri NEPA For ext uve 150 NEPA Free Access attori Not dr ai 40% our GHG Gr Gn
Fr vreune Coa. Seed oarS 70 rear AUTRE ue Cora: CSTR


--- PAGINA SUCCESSIVA ---

ARTICLE $54 — ELECTRICAL METALLIC TUBING (EMT) 850
358.14 Distimilar Metals Where pracicable dissimilar tale
ARTICLE 358 in contact ame in th seem shall be aride to eliminate
i ie Tab the poscbilev of gakanic action
Electrical Metallic Tubing (EMT)
stainless sicela nd amb ting and encloses hall bo
permitica 10 be used sith gaanized sel EXT, and galbaniaed
Pant. General scel tinge and encloses shall be pected 19 be used with
581 Scope, Tie cil covers the we, installation, and TIT EVE tere voi 8 severe coro Inflcete
construction specifications for electrical metallic tabi (EST)
andassocated hing. stainless stocl EXT shallonl be used with the following:
558,6 Listing Requirements. EMT, factory cows, and asso. (1) Salnkss sel figs
re hm ey wy © Sinks) bandos
5) Steck gairanized paca, power or PYG costed, and so
forth) poses and encbsurcs when not subject 1 severe
Pani. — commie Influences
Sinks tec honmetallic, oc approvedacressorics
388.10 Usca Permined.
356.20 Sine
(A) Exposed and Concealed. Toc ue of ENT shall be peri i
ted for eth expec an conccaled mock for the following: A) Minin, EST smaller ihan metri designator 16 grade
@) In concrete, in direct contac with te cart in direct 92° 9) shall not be wed.
burial applications vath fittings kemiBod for diect Expo: eri designato 12 (vale she 4) sho be prt fo
burial, or n teas subject to severe corrosite influcnecs me ing fe dso] motors as per kin 430. 90).
hese installed in accordance wih $38 18) N
(2) Indy damp, and wet locatione ®) Maximum, The maximum size of EST shall be matic
9) In any hazardous {clarified bation as peemined by designator 153 ade size 6),
othecacicle ia this Coe oma! Note Sc JUICY for he cc. designare
(n For mamctucd wing some a peated in uv mae ur Thee ste of Wemibion pyre oi an
HNO) Rei rand eto
(8) Corrmive Environments. 550.22 Number of Conduriore The number of conductors
0 Calvanized Sel and Suiniess Steel ET, Elbows, and [+p GE that permiitod the percentage fl specified
Fitting. Cahanized ucel and siainicss sic! EMT, clon, and Chapt
Tings shall be posed to be pled in concrcic, In direct Gables shall be permite to be fnsalod where such use is
Conia with the cach, or in areas bjt 10 tescre corosive ot prohibited fhe cspoctive cable actklon The number af
influences hice pratoeicd by cocoon. procion and able shall not exceed the allowable perce reage Gl speciicd
approved as suitable for the condition. iN Table I Chapter 9
(2) Supplementary Protection of Ataminum EM: Aluminam $5024 Bends
Ee ei OPP CTO (A) How Made, Scud shall be made so ihat the whing is not
protction here encase i contrete ar ia dee contact i
protect damaged and the inoraal dametoe of the tubing is noi ccc.
tivels tedueed The dus of the cune of an ed bon lo the
(©) Cinder Fill, Calanized sicel and stainless siccl EXT shall centerine of the tubing shall nor be less than show in Table,
be permit to be ale in cinder concrete or code il haptced for one shot and full shoe benders.
hike bet lo permanent mokture who protected on all N
sides by a laser of noncinder concrete at lest 3 rm (2 (n) 8) Number in One Run The total degrees of bods in a
d di tubing nin shall notescced 360 degrees boner pull points
Thick or ven the tubing is installed at least 50 mm {1 in) ns pull poi
under the Til 358.29 Reaming and Threading
(D) Wei Locations. AN supports, bol, strap, screws, and 0 (ay Reamiag, AN cut cms of EMT shall be rcamed or other
forth shall be of orton estat. materak or proci ec finished lo cemose rough cage
against cortorion by corrasionresistale materiale
= i ® Threading, EMIT shall not be thea
ental None: See 00.6 for otto aga sions % IT dll be
Esopion: EMT wit for vomadsd integral couplings complying
CE) Physical Damage, Stcel and stainless cel ET shall bc Son 330.100 Mal de os fd colin onyng
permite tobe installed where subject to physical damage
358.12 Usea Non Permined. EMT shall not be weed under ihe sonic mi Sorbent wih In and dbs
Following conditions: securels toned in ples and Supported in accordance with
(1) Where subject 10 sce piasical darage 350.300) and (8)
(2) Forth support of luminaltesor other equipment SXTPE a) Secureip Farsemed EST shall bs securely fastened in pla
securely Fastened. EMT shall bc securely fastenedin place
co badi no larger an rg rene {2 STEER ilari
@ Atinenaki nottocsod $m (19 FO
Debio NAN ELECTRIC COR re
Coat NEPA For ent ve a or NEPA Free Access stn Net fr as Buon Gu gian cranny
Far aa ono ae roar om APS use coat RE


--- PAGINA SUCCESSIVA ---

m0 ARTICLE 960 FLEXIBLE METALLIC TUBING (PT)
(2) Within 900 mm (3 0 of cach outlet box, Junction box 360.12 Osea Nos Perm, PMT shall not be cd as follons
device box, apie, condi body, of SU BG term 13) In bentenes
ation © Ineops battery rooms
Exc So. 1 Fosning of sno ngs hol prmicediobe 6) In. Basan {elibed) cations unkess ole
aro to a distanen of 1.3 (3 RU goto ead membri do nor reid ones other ails bn ia Car
a ens tot 0 Ciakergiound for deces canh bare, oc embedded in
postedeontiete or aggregate
Exton No è tor commie uom ised bins or prin 3) ess E
ted ati pasti ann eh ring en, wider) miei nei LA MOT
it obthot coupling) EST sil ered to dr o
(3 Seppona Meral ne at ESC epg on sn
through arming members al miele nor grace ton 3 m (4) Minimum. FMT small than metcie designato 16 grade
(30 U and sock fasenca thin 900 mm (311) of termina: Ste 2) hall not be sed.
tion points shall be permiicd. Exreption No. 1: EMT of metric designator 12 (trade size) shall be
$56.11 Couplings and Connectors. euplings and conncctors mod of nselit fn acconti wih 00 S50) a (1
th EXT a Je male up fo, hes BEL ino 5 BMP of arie dsr 12 rad st 1 sl
installed in wet bocations, they shall comply with $14.15. fromitted è immgths not in exces of 18 mi (6 fi) as part of a ded
5 Cmte. So 410 151
$58.5 Spies and Top. Splces and tape shall be made in i) Maximum, The ima ste of PIT shall be mic
designato Zi (ade 52%)
$58.00 Grounding, EMT shall be peri as an equipment ga Noe: See ICH for ie mei designate
rounding conductor Id ue tex Mese ate fh Begariativs wid
BIT Conde.
Pan BIL. Construction Specifications 300.2 Number of Conduaror
$50.10 Gonstacion. EMT shall be made of anc of the (A) PT — Mei Desgostors 6 and 21 (Trade Sues and
following: % Th nuraber of condarior: in more designatory 10 Grade
kh preci comings oe % and fade site Vo hall not ence tha permitied by
(8 conto FE RE Pe
& Sumac Cable shall be perminted to be instaled whece such us i
dor: EST shall be lec and ducal marked at no! probibitea by fe pec Cable articles The number of
Ey mete ee af alr shall ho xl alonable percentage prc
lan ever Table Chapters
®) FMT Metric Designutor 12 Trade Sine %. The nambee
OF comments mete erignator TF rade Ste 4) hk mo
co that pen Table REE
35024 Bend.
ARTE 360 Inf requens Flexing Us thon FMT is infr de Texed
i CLE S61 @ te ing Use. When, PMT is infrequent ad
Flexible Metallic Tubing (FMT) {N revise insialiatio n, the rav of bends measured 19 he
Sic of the bond shah ho be less fh specifica dn Table
part Ge Song
$601 Scope. This aril covers the ue, installation, and Table 602844) Mini Radi for Psiog Use
construction specifications for flexible metalic tubing (FUT) ial
andassochted rings ———
$605 Listing Rgqioements. PMT and associated ings shall Marie Tor ing Une
be listed. Designator Trade Size = n
Te ox www
Pan H. Installation 6 % 3173 2%
a % pe [i
860.10 Ors Permined. FMT shall be permite o be wed for ——————2—— 442 1%
brancheircuit a follows {B) Fixed Bends. Where FMT is bent for installation purposes
(4) In dry locations dna È o eno beni a coed by ine alter installation
© Whe coca fc radilof bends meal to ie eke of to herd hat noi
face o ethan specifica in Table 360/218)
(9 For stem voles of ii volts maximum 860,56 Splices and Tups. splices and taps shall be made in
decor dance sil1 800.47
om [Ep
Copp NEPA Foren use oo NEPA Free Access gt Not dr ai 40% our GHG Gr Gn
For vreune Coa. Seed oarS 70 BEST AUTRE ue SO CSTR


--- PAGINA SUCCESSIVA ---

Table 30.248) Minimum Radi For Fed Benda Wri] Note No, Li A fab ing cad
Frontier A e
fire Marit a a
Minimum Radi For [Rifle fri rhietintaoiriuiing
Maric Fixed Beads ihe of 21°C (2AVE) oe an individual tonperatare of
Dagar Teese mm = FE Td
_Doigwer  Tmiesee mw i eB gd eat ee
12 p wo E fri teed
IH 5 we i
! mn : Pe —
mw ews ee a) Ri ee Re
Lille eo au
860.60 Grounding. FMT shall bc peemitcd 3 an equipment (9) In locations subject to severe corrosive influences as
prtagron Sigg mele in ateodanee rit Everio pigiare
FT Rol te marcela peal approva
© conta den ax damp Ioaalione noi protibica br
' ' pts
Pan HI, Construction Specificatione © Ame suspend cellings whe the suspended clings
360.120 Making. PAT shall be marks acoording io 119.21, pronte a Toma beds of matera ht be east a
ied assemblica.ceeepi as per mite din 6219112
Lapin to (3: ENT shal tr pron ta de id alone
apni cbs outings cig, re fo ong
ARTICLE 362 EE EAT, Se
i Es62 pistes fr precise mam
Electrical Nonmetallic Tubi (ENT
ing (I Sof rmational Note Na. 3: See NFPA 19-2022. Standart
sk luana Spero bani
rt. O Llano hon
821 Seo. Tis aie covers the re installation and (1 Encl prc eoncrete one, clings, wal, and
construction specifications for electrical nonmetallic tubi abs.
Scion ecibaion E 5 Embedded in a comcrte sab on grads where ENT is
ngs ced) on sand or approved screening, provided tings
$622 Recondisoned Equipment ENT shall no: be econ Enid for 5 purpose ace ods someone
footy im ar te 0 In a
ing Reem. ENT and soca ge sal RE Mg dad 105
be listed 9 Metri designato: 16 through 27 (trade size % through
He anal arturta permtedl as serbi
' 0) Wil conducion or cable! caled ata temperature higher
Pani. Ensialiation than the listed temperature cating of ENT if the conduc-
$59.10 Uses Permitted. For the purpose of this article, the tors or cables are no! operated ai a temperature higher
first floor of a building shall be that Home that has 30 percent than the listed temperature rating of the ENT.
or mmc of the exer or al cae ar level vt of abore n a
finished grade. One additional level that È the Het level and Supreme To PErmined ENT stall net be wed in the
ono hoa ba and ony do vale EC
patking momage, ot similar i al be pogmin Toe ue of n an bass (classed) location, except as poemi
ENT an Ting salle ped in inc ow: (n Cao a
at Ins support a ina ae thc equipment
Ina building not exceeding three floocsaboce grade (8) Where subject to ambient temperatiites in execs of BO
los UE ee ih oer
a For xpos nach. wher net probibkcd by 36242 (8 Foci cacth ct
5. Conan win wal. To ngs (9) In expored atone xcept a peeled by 3621001),
@ Ta sag aah Ts oat Sve grade Ew
conce vit cori ox roca (8) In caer and Adar locations, cxecpi as provided in
rors and celine whe th wall, es and cling’ ind ana Dina
provide a thermal barrier of material ay has at bastia (7) Where exposcd tothe dict cays of the sun, unless Kent.
minute Tn ang as Hemi in sims oF ee ed ght teat
pied 0 Woes bier ie praia damage
Excpion (25 Wh an ppd automati oe poise ost se: Etc ht ic aca.
Emerick ete do bossa re eo el
faster tang eritrea NS Wh iy
tos cogs fos tos gra
[ET an
Sonn NEPA Force or NEPA Free Access att Na hr rat isti cou guar xs
Far Paura a Ee a ve CON, meets


--- PAGINA SUCCESSIVA ---

seno ARTICLE 3h — AUXILIARY GUTTERS
S620 Sire. 96248 Jom A joins beveoen lenge of tubing and
ho etme tubing and coupling», tgs. and bos shall be by
CA) Minimum, ENT srl than metic dosgrmior 1 grade Pete UAE
fibula pprovca mn
oon ENT be ian etc Are 6 Grats 39259 Splces and Tape. Splicos and tape shall be mate nly
sine 24) shall ot be uses i
non] Note See S00.14 for the werk doigpay 20260 Crounding Where cop men rounding scored.
and trae sizes. Those arc for identifivation purposes anh and n Là kN pes
rier shod iio, wayin compliance wih Article £3, Fart VI.
36222 Number of Conductors. The number of conductors xion No, I: The equipment grounding comducior shalt br permit
shall not excved that permitied by the percentage (ll in Table (40 br min spara fom the mensa) wher asd for pring de
shall oso eit aprmiet n 80134, Ev So. È
Cables shall be permitted to be installed where such use is Eareption No. 2: The squipment pounding conductor sholl not be
ve prohibited by he respective cable articles, Toe number of "ed wher th mandi conta i ved as part of the fcr
cables shall not execcd the allbwable porcertage fil spociicd PPA pat as peaked in 280. 1
fig Oct
s62.20 Bens Parti. Constmcion Specificazione
CA) How Made, Bend shall be so made tha the tubing vl $62.00 onstruction. ENT shall be made of material hat
Not be damaged and the ico] ic a he tibia ml doc noi nce the ge Tamaki gene
Bot e Teche reduced Bend: shall be permiticd be Bon and toxici charac ics ot Fa (nonplastiched) pol
fate Manoni fh Say Ode ande maglio! So hc
Tuma to re come of mach bed halt vk be os fo
thecurye tn foe conor of such eis shall ot be eo tha ENT, as a provid manu actucegi ary, shall be pt
how in Table 2, Chapter 9 using the column "Oer Bends: ded in continuous lengihs capable of being shipped in a coil,
®) Number în One Run, The total degrees of bere in a ros grcarton tho damage
ing ard dee pee Pulp © pe ec and durati he
$60.29 Trimming, All cot ends shall be immed inside and least very 3 eID (1) a coguicod dn the fed sevens SE
ite to remore sgh ge NBA). The pe ci material shall also be hod Tn the
i smarking. Sariing or limito smoke shall be pooled on he
362.30 Securing and Suppordag. ENT shall be insialed as a Li That has limited smoke. produdng characteristio.
complete sytem in accordano: with 800.18 and shal be bing that bas limited smoke producing cha
sccutely atone in phe by an approvc means and suppor. The type, Sac, an quant ol concise in previced
tedinacordance with 32 3000) and BY POS manuriatiarea assembiics shall be identifica by means of a pin:
(A) Securely Fasiened. ENT shall be seal fastenodatinter. E tag 9% label stacked to cach cod of the manufactuced
Salo voi nce 900 mira (8 10) In afin, ENT dul be Semi and br the actor coll or ee, The
Sacre sen In per bin 900 ram (310 ot each aie
To fer box. june ion box, cabinet. Aig shoe er:
ors Where sn cable Ges shall be We or the application
Sud tor sein a supporting
Exon No. 1 Length vain a datare 1 m (6 fl frm
‘a tuminazie erminiolconnortior for ap rotazione to 4g damn ARTICLE 366
“ars shall be point without bring secs. Auxiliary Gutters.
Exton o. 2 Ltn cing 1 mo fon he ost joie
Sy a ido sn iti art. Gerard
“rig to ams or tr pen
i ets) other 366.1 Scope. This article covers the we, installation, and
Exception No, 3: for coneled work in fished buidings of I consiruetion requirements of metal awliary gutters and
cat ps si rh rai pci, under fionractallicawiliary guters and associator[ fitting
Imig coup) ENT shall be provid fd
hed wing) of » 366.6 Listing Requirements
® Supports Liocizonial cans of ENT suppor. by openings
ee che oo catena Se 0 E) (AI Outdoor. Nonmetallic aula gute Instaledoutaoors
and securely fastened within 900 mm (3B) of termination shall be listed toc all ot the tollowing conditions:
points shall be permitted. (1) Exposure to sunlight
ve mos
362.46 Bushings. Where a tubing cn a box, fitting or ou
S048 Bring. Wh» OPES AT IE 9) Simm amb impr otte alain
Protect the wire trom abrasion unless the box, fitting, or enclo- 1B) Indoors. Nonmetallic auxiliary gutters installed indoors
Sure csign provides cquhalent protection. Shall be inca lor the maximum ambient temperature of the
Inforanational Note See 900.44 for the protection of conduc: installation.
pest phd
om J —
Sommer NEPA Foren a use co NEPA Fre fess fr No! ra tin con cus rs
Roeser


--- PAGINA SUCCESSIVA ---

sche son coerce pe
Parti. tnubinon be conscred a carententing cote The ae
i a STS he Te a
366.10 Ores Permined. ary gutters shall not exercd 155 amperes/mm? (1000
a Soe he sir Gomer id eon Torn
Ei ttn fe t,o ru
rig metal aoghary gutcrs :
fer and Ondo On ees ne Th pie di n din i Me
(1 Wa to She mel als ge WK in SRO ae +a Gan. The aironi i
~ locations shall be suitable for such bocatlons, Mon 7 Gates. The adusanent factors
wet locations shall be suitable for such loc speciBed in 310.15(C)(1) shall be applicable to the curcent.
or Noumea Airy Gore ovale soy gma oo Sele en N
toma, ft me Sele ml Ce i
TESRRMEREEIIIE III apra
fot sl Nie: Ext cold us cae nonmetal il {A) Sheet Meul Audley Gutters Steet metal auxiliary
pee Se SN A agi tie nd
Ae from psi] soi length at iniccvals not exceeding 1.5 m (3 FD.
0 Omi peli utc fake pied Nonmetalle Aubry Gtr anctalle ania
e tome spe a pT Se SL dl innate RE
ite ek Bis otc spoil are wr di enh ot
Cn me fm i
{6 Ewe Dm of Aosta Gone la ues 2088 SEP Exper ing albe sed
pr! oe permite to extend a cance - greater than 9 m tion due to temperature change, is more than mm {025 in).
ì equipment that it supplement 66.5% Splices and Taps. Splices and taps shall comply with
pao men ue 1 mens st 207 oon n SE A
Se LS ST en te 0
mt queen pi nu Go, Soke gs, lls pid si
366.12 Uses Now Permined. Auxiface gutters shall not be uscd or dos. The conductors, including splice and tape, shall nol
to enclose sche, ovcccucsent deve. appliances, or other lth otic to more tan 79 prc of i atea.
iar equipmen: {B) Bare Conductors. Taps from bare conductors shall lease
$56.0 Conc Conse dn Furl hee single ne Coe 1 0 be di, Sl ee
‘conductor cables comprising cach phase, neutral, or grounded shall not be brought in contact with uninsalated curmento
ro a nl on gt soe
Fol East i DT BT a A re be wht st
pal pees S010, fe coe ll x Joy
flan ing et ar me atei siero
A CE CAL
ance tore in auxiliary guttees shall be provided wit mercuent
os senberat Comduerore a Fe oh
(A) Shee Metal Auxiliary Cutters. The sum of the cross 366.58 Insulated Conductors.
Ca To A.

(3 Deed ms Condutvore hc insulto conic
cross section of a sheet metal auliary gutter shall not exced tore are deflected within an auxiliary gutter, cither at the ends
20 peceent of the interior aosssoctional arca of the sheet of vice conduls, Rings or other Fates OF Sb eater or
metal auxilia gutter. (cave the gutter, or where the ditection of the gutter fs defloe-

em iy Gas. To gf econ pm mente pide
Negrete ily Goer The AE STI eee ein in RM SIE lpn
en oto Put Br he td
: + Outer Cd m Pal Borra Were insula
Bh ao  ( adi Canes Quad ai Pull rs rs insulari
lic auxiliary gutter. ter the distance between racenay and cab cnirics carlos
Sos ret Conduce a an be a oe ee
th She os te Game. The af en SE
Dime gm tenn ye tera
STO lbp A rk i, mendes ST gute shall be connet
FSE e ae Na ei dI me Se eae
Sica Te ele
tor lor tignalng Secs or controller ondiaciore beeen 3 tedor [OUCH by 280 82/8) 1) or 260342
Ce


--- PAGINA SUCCESSIVA ---

se6.100 ARTICLE et BUSWAY
Pan HL Construction Specifications (A) Exposed. Bussass shall be permitod to be iocated in the
306.100 Comare ‘open bere visible, exec pras permiticdlin SERIO(C
(A) Elica and Mecbanical Comin Gute shall be {E held Acer Panel ea ul be ae vo be
Smsiacied and installed #0 that adeguate ciecirical and aod Behind acces panels, proved the bua arc tal
mechanical continu of the complete sysern is secured enclosed. of nomentlating apo construction, and installed so
i in ile ons in Se and ge eh for
{(B) Substantial Construction. Guners shall be of substantial maintenance purposcs. Where installed behind access pancls,
construction and shall provide a complete enclosure for the Means of access shall be provided, and cither of the following
contained conductors. AF surfaces, buh inecior and emegor, conditions shall be mer
sali be suitable protected fom corrosion. Corer pins sali (1) The space behind the acces panels shall not be sed for
be made tight and where e assembirie hob together br eran
Che bake or sarena, nach fastener: shall be pace Mot more Mbete to behind the acces panch ix use for
than So mim 1% ind apart emironmental ale, one than duci: and plenum, there
(€) Smooth Rounded Edges. Suktable bushings, hicks, o shall be no priors for lin connections, and the
error rym rut Si
condctor pas between gutters, Incough partons around (Cp Through Walls and Floors. Bua shall be pitied to
Be ben Eo gutters and cabins of Junction bones, ATA be tale thivigh, wl oc Moore In accordanee. Mi
bron he ney 0 prevent nh So ED 1 (CB
ton of the conductor 1) Walls, Unbroken lengths of busway shall be permitted to
(Dì Gaver. Covers shall be scare fastenc to th gr te og
© Cirarance of Bare Live Parts atc conductors shall be (2) Floor. Floor penetrations shall comply ith WICI(Z)
sccutely and gel supported tat he minimum clearance (a) and CAT
between bare current<acring metal parts of dil ccont roliages (a) Buswaws shall be perininod to be extended serially
mounted on the same surface wi not be lese han 50 mm thorns der dae IE italy, acre Cameni ate) when
(in), nor less han 2 mm (1 in for parts tht are held fece passing through and for a minimura distance of 1A m (6 10
In the at. A cicarance not les han 5 mam 1 ind sali be Poe de Hone la rie whe meni om phesical
sccuted beteten tute cunning mal pans and any damage
metal surface. Adequate provisions shall be made for the 05 In other than industrial establishment, where a «crt
expansion and contraction of busters. al scr penetrates tenor more dey finocs, a minimum 106m.
in high cutb shat be mall around all lot openings
$66.20 Marking. for sce busways to prevent liquide from entering the opening.
(A) Oudoore. Nonmetalli auxifacy gunersinstalied cutdoocs The cach shall be Pall thin 300 ram (12 N) of he fior
a bare he following ma rig: opening. Elecu cal equipment hall be located that it mil
Seale or esposte ronal Not be darmged by liquide ha are tetalnod by the cu.
€) Sultabie fo use net locatione 308.12 Ose Nor Perminea.
Feiner temperature rating :
e a (a) Foyt Damage, usa shall be led here
® doors. Nonrmetalli auxiiacy guts Walled indoncs abit to severe pial damage os corra sapori
shall be macked with the allel conductor insulation Pet Po se Po
temperature rating. ® Hcismays Busse shall nor be stall in hosts,
(© Hazardoas Locations. Basavs shall not be recalled in ant
Karts (Cibo ation, aks specibicaliv approved for
sien ne
orm Soi: Se 501.1)
ARTICLE 368 (Di sa ob: tunes ht talea si
Busway inwet or imp location unless cn for such ure.
© Working Platform. Lighting busy and trolley busy
Pant. Generi Shall not be nal Ist than 29 m (#1) shore the fioor 0
$604 Scope Thi aril covers eyecare, er, and ROHR PROT union provide with an idee cover
brandh-ckcuk buswass and associatod fittings. $68.17 Overcurrent Protection. Ceccurcent protection shall
be provided In avenedance wh 68 13) tog (0)
afl, Insallaion (A) Rating of Overture Protection — Feeder. A busy
Pani. k shall be protoctcd againet overcurrent in accordance with the
$8010 Ore Permit Bums hall be pms io be Corer ng of bs
install cc they are located in accordance ito RIO i
alte ey Erie So. 1: Th cpl provisions of 240.9 ke peri.
tat Soc See ZL Br foram comerningihe  Evepio So. 2: Win wed as rofomerseandar te, 506041
reato fre né pda tig (1 sholibe ponies
remo SATHONAL MECTRAL CODE Sri
Copp NEPA Foren use oo NEPA Free Access gt Not dr ai 40% our GHG Gr Gn
For vreune Coa. Seed oarS 70 BEST AUTRE ue SO CSTR


--- PAGINA SUCCESSIVA ---

ARTICLE SA BUSWANS pre
®) Redoction in Ampacity Sire of Buvap Orcrcument Whee a separate equipment rounding conductor i eel,
protection shall be aren where Ima ale reduced in onnention of the equipment grounding onduntor 10 the
Spin we shalizompie i 257 and £50 2
vein: bon indu anal times ont, omiesion of ocupe(B) Gord and Cable Awembles. Sable cord and cable
raion shall be pri ors shee sath ar miied i ascemblice denied for tco-hard usage oF hard wage and
Ampacit, prude it 0 nh of the uray Ming dhe mole 160 bus drop cable shall be peed ae branches from
erty do vot nd 15m 50) ant ni ame ar me ae. fo he connection of portable cipro o ThE
gd 0 neti do. ing Af dhe TAT Ake est connection of ony equipment Io facia tei ce
chon he divo, ant TEE tht oh ist i fi om const Change in accordance sath 1033 and 10.12 and the follow
ia omits matera comin
(© Fender or Branch Circuit. Where basa ic used as a (1) Toc eocdor cable shal be attached to the ulin byan
feeder, devices or plug-in connections for tapping ofl feeder or ‘approved means.

Branch Sica am The away chal co (he ovescunsent (8) The length of the cord or abl from a buseay plugin
devices teguited for the protein of te feeder ax branch deve to a abl tension ake support device shall
rircuits The plugin device shall consist of an e stemaliy apera- not exceed LA m (6)
Ere bicaler of an external operabie fail clic 8) The cord and cable shall be istallod as a vertical de
Where such devices ate mounted ut of teach and contain fom the tension takeatp support device to the ip.
disconnecting means, suitable means such as ropes, chains, or ment served.
i shall er for operating the disconnediing meant (0 Sirain relict cable rips shall be provided for the cord or
from the lione, cable at the va piugin devio and equipment er:
Exton So, 1: As print in 240,21
ist Exception to (IN 25: In industrial ssablis ment: owt, whore the condi.
Evepion So. 2: For fad or soi luminari, whew dhe ach sof resists ant upton sur toy ood
chit ove curt deve is part of the luminal cord plug on cord. pesos arvior dhe imstaiation, nhs coming 18 m 16 fl shal de
Cosmed tuminir. rested dete (he ary agen Arey an dt tension mie ip
Exception No. 3: Wr luminai mes without cons are plugged divert support device where die cond ov Cab is supporto al ivkevvats not
a do moar vm oo fo, Hi 5
pe (© Branches from Trolley.-Type Busway. Suitable cord and
Eon. 4 Wim hr branch cht arent agin dies Cable Sel Kleniticd for oxic soo hard emg
er ht ou 4 Ted us dep cable sali be penned ranch from
pae sas polar Selly busca for the connection of movable equipment
in accordance wih 400.19 an 400.12
rcs dali te provi src, 308.58 Dead ad. Adeadendofabunas shall chsed
Coreen accordance wn E120 368,60 Grounding Bum shall be connect 1 an cpp:
ment rounding condacort). i an oqiprcnt bon
368.30 Sport. Gusvays shall be securely sported at inter. srounding qui ng
tak nor Coed 19 m (310 uno thew desire and JUMP, or lo the growed conduca where permitica of
her Cereb BOSE) ox 0302
36056 Branches from Bumays Ecanches fren bay shall
be pemiticd fo be made In cordance ith SOB SOC), (8 Paritti, Constraction
and 368.120 Making. Sura shall be racked ith the solage
8) Ceneri, archos from bunary shall be pried to use and cee tg for ch they ace devon, and woh the
aie lla i og cd manafactuater® name of tadematk in uch 8 manner a 0 bo
ble aie mein
0) Tope AG armored cable
€ Tipe HC metalelad cable
9 Tope MI minceabavsicd, metal sheathicd cable ' .
{4) iL intermediate metal conduit Pari IV. Requirements for Over 1000 Vote, Nominal
(5) RMC rigid metal conduit 368.214 Adjacem and Supporting Stroctures, Mctalendoscd
8) FM exible metal condi as EE ee de fo
©) Lidge Tole metaleonduit nach citeulatg curtis n ajaceni eros metal pas
@) PVC cigid polyvinyl chloride conduit will not be hazardousto personnel or constitute a fice hazard.
©) KIX ccinforeed themoseing cin conduit -
am LENG Hquidighs leaible nonmetallic conduit 368234 Barriers and Seals.
11) EMI eletrical metallic tubing a1 Napor Si
lì por Sale. uma runs that hate sections located both
{1} ENT cherical movil bing inde isto Pings ol rs vapor ao oe
(11) Staph cacenar bulding lio prevent car of sree ick and
(13) Surface metal mecvay
(16) Surface nonmetallc faceway Exc: Vipor vats shall a begin in ort cot bu
SE NATL EEC M ALCO 0
Coty Fore vane ue NEPA Fre Aspro 9 coe cu ng
Fone cor Soe own 70 portera dea use COR SSM bacia


--- PAGINA SUCCESSIVA ---

36024 AKTCLE 36 —INSULATED BUS PIPE (BP /TUSULARCOVERED CONDUCTORS (TCG) SSTESSS
®) Fire Baier, Fire barr shall be provided whee lire
lr or ig are poner ARTICLE 369
Uiformational Noi: See S021 for information coer the Insulated Bus Pipe (BBP)/ Tubular
Frame Ce (TC Sou
$66.23 Drain Faciliiea Drain plugs, fics drains or sls ye
net shall be provided 19 eve condonizà mine
Fora lo points in basa tun. Pant. General
368287 Senile Bos Enciosures. Venvilacd tuevay enclo. 369.1 Scope. This article coves the we, installation, and
Bates shall be led in accordance with ARIE HO, PASTI onsriion specifications For Insalate Bus pipe LBP
and 155.21. 92 Reconditioned Equipment. ISP and I8P systems shall
8.288 Termiasions and Connections. Where buscrcosurcs ho be rooted.
ermine si machine cook br. lamimabie gua, Seal ol bash i
in lice oxo, ro sha De proviled io prevent rs 3098 Living Requirements, 18 and 16 sica shal be
ulation of Ilamemable gas in the bua enclosutes, list
il condurtos tconination and connection hardware shall be
acto for cation connection and maintenance Pari IL fnsaliaion
360289 Sviiche Switching devices or diconnocting links $800 Uses Permisiei 61 gate shall be permitied fos re
provided dn dhe us ur Shall bin he Same iy on onor lene accounts with olan
Pang as the avy Dicomneting links shall be pay ee tame chat
malo toe nema or hens cnoios Doty) Meapomd nansim accordance thao och ire
ir viccs that arc not kedtrcak shall be interlocked to va i
ing de (5) installa through valle, in unbroken lengths. Whece 18P
prevent operation under bad, and dionnecting link enclo penetrates an exterior wall the entice length that pone.
Ces hal be interlocked prs en acess io cnergizcd parta papers an cor wal tn ene eng that pene
868.240 Wiring 1000 Volts or Less, Nominal Sccondary pening in the wall shall be scaled by an approved
control desicr and wing that are provided as pact of the method
metabencloscd bus wn shall be insulated by Arc-cetacdant (4) Extended vertically through dry loocs if totally cndorcd
Tre or all primary Stet emit fe este pron DÈ în metal where. passing through th Tos and lor a mini:
short lengths of wire, such as at instrument transformer termi mum distance of 14 m {6 10) above the floor to provide
pe LPR damagt 1 PE
36.244 Expansion i Flexible or expansion connec. P) For voltages up to and including #6. 2 nomi
Roncai be prosiod Bg, salti eo Si bis toate tor 30812 Uses Nok Permit. IF ics shal no be uscd
temperature expansion ar contraction, a where the busway under the following conditions:
run one building vbestion insulation joint (1) In any hazrdons (classifica) location except as posi
60258 Neutral Condusor: Neutral bus, where cod. by other articles in this Cade
shall be sed to carry all neutral kad curcent, including (2) For the support of luminaimsor other equipment
harmonic curcents, and shall have adequate momentary and Lg) Where eoncealed by the building structure
shortcitcult current rating consent wth seiem require 11) Where acecssible to other than qualified person (i)
ment $69.14 Instaliuzion. 18P aste shall be installed by quid
8.260 Grounding Metalenclosed buoy shall be groun bone Al docameniaion sal be bk to th autori
pai unding: li having jucisdiction.
' 369.20 Terminsion or Connections. Manufacturers supplied
360.320 Marking. Each busmay run shall be provided with a poi
368.120 Marking bach burs un bal be provided vita a ai mean Mili be ocd for W8P mec connections ar
le rie pie Conejos pln fins pls dase
i) Rated voltage
{8 BEE rn ecto tel Bom ae Lc Ue oe
ee Imation do. 3, rindi pensio for dbo
forced cooled) rating for the same temperature ric shall ov to and including 2000 vk.

[ogres Lp! Noe No. 2 See 1030 for ode cee
tì ala frequen. AR SY
© Ratedimpulee sitand voltage. 061 detto SUO ol
© ood ts «chan vl (45) $69.80 Ampacitk 1 sce shall be we within the marked
9) Manufacturers name of trademark. ampacity o the I.

e 36930 Temperaiare Rating. ISP sic shall be wed vithin
oto] Se See [EEE CI125 20, RIE Serie
Shao niin ait mie eNa fy De maximum ated conduct temperature
elena mie
pe [Ep
Sommer NEPA Foren a use co NEPA Fre fess fr No! ra tin con cus rs
Eon os he pe Sore men 1 a RRS


--- PAGINA SUCCESSIVA ---

ARTICLE 579 — CABLEBUS 80
Par HL, Construction Sprcificaione 870.20 Conductor Sine and Termiaion
369100 Construction. The IF conductor sal be alaminum (A) Conductor The curccncary bg conto in cables
or copper. The bus pipe shall be peemiticd to be solid or shall comply wih the following:
bollore. ©) Have an insulation rating of 73°C (167) or higher and
369.110 Barrer. Fic barrier shall be provided where fire be of anapprorsd yp Raabe for he application
pinata tn Be ind i accordance wit th digs of the cables
bu In no case be calc han 1/0
ots] Soc See 2 ooo cri he
Rs domini 5) Teminsion. gp cminating means shall be st
869.120 Marking, All ISP shall be marked to indicate the fot conncctions to catichus conductors
loving formation Aiformatisnal Note No. See LOLSHEN for coin cer:
(1) The maximum cated voltage phaseio phase oc phascso- fs IEEE erin robin mtd
ound
(2) Fhe maximum cated ampacy foal Noe No. 2 See LD4D fo ceo iena
ma. ox che disinctive te Thabo dee tienilo bona for ood
macking by which the organization responsible for the 2001 vedo 09500 mb
piotuci can de tend inch $7022 Number of Conductors, The number of conductors
oF SUO io occ mil arca of the Sali be that Er whch cs dr
(5) The maximum ated conductor temperature $7025 Overcurent Protection. Cablebus stall be protceted
(6) The rated peak withstand curcent atig in (ms sanmeni- against ovcronceent in accordance with the ampacity of the
lamp or Coes acon in accordance vath 2104
(7) Encore type designation, f other than ype | on. owes proton sh br permitant in arrondane i
© Tae orien current and dation if 555A Ont eten sali pert in andor with
gro than’ ec
370.30 Seeing and Sap porting.
(A) Cablebns Supports. Cablebus shall be sccurely supported
ion mor hong 87 m (1210. Where spant Poet
ian 37 m (12 rc equine, te Krutch be specie
ARTICLE 570 Coleg dior te coma span igh
Cablebus 18) Condiurtor Supports. The insulated conductors shall be
Supported on locke or ashes MET mounting ean’
Puri. Geneial “The individual conductors in a abiebus shall be suppocicd
at incall greatte than 900 mr (3 1) for boritonial int
8701 Scope, This arick covers the use and installation nl 0m 1: 1 fo vertical rima Vogtical and heal
ceguitementsof cablebusand associated fittiogs. spacing between supported conductors shall be not kes than
coco dia mec ai the pont of SPP
Parti. insialiaion $70.2 Fitting. A cabo sistem shall nce ings for the
following:
$740 Cos Fermin Gabba sali be pried 3 0" coat reorial dicclonof ile am
© Tominarions inoron connected apparaniar camprcnt
(1) Atany eoltage or curcensfor which paced condor are die ciclone for seh ei prt
ied and her alld only for posed werk CAPE (3 Adaiional phssical protein whee eguited, such as
spend in ds shore Sbjct evens physical damage
2) For branch ciccuis, feeders, and services ha vi Po
3) To be installed indoors, eutdoors, or in corrosivo, wet, or $70.60 Grounding. A ablchus sistem shall be grounded
«lamp locations where ide ntificd for the use ‘and/or banded as applicable:
$7.12 Uses Not Permitted. Cablebus shall not be permited (1) Cablebus framework, where bonded, shall be pormiicd
$7042 Ores No Permived do be smd 3 the cpm. rounding condurtor for
be installed in the following: branch ciccuits and fooders.
0 isha tn A cablebi illo, shall be groundod and bondod in
@ marone else) locations, anke speciale accordance with Part and Pari I of Ack 290, edu
permitted in Chapter ing 230.86, Exception No. 2
$70.18 Cablebos Installation. Cabcbus shall be permea to $70.80 Ampacity of Conductors. The ampacity of conductors
extend traneverecly through partitions and walk or verticale in cablebus shall be in accordance with 311.17 and 319.19 for
through platfanns and floacs in wt oc dry locations where the installations ap to and including 2007 volts, or with Table
installation, complete with the installed cables, is made in BEAK) and Table 315.60) for installations
‘accordance with $00.21 2001 vols to 85.200 volts.
Es, AONE GO pr
Coty NPA Fore a ac EPA Free Access rn Noi fr it tion cose cu rn
Fa Coa or ARS Tare AE Se SATS


--- PAGINA SUCCESSIVA ---

smn ARTICLE 371 — PLEX BLE BUS STEMS
Pan BIL. Construction Specificatone ® Rating of Ovrearras Prosegiion— Feeders. Fists bus
rots vam hm eal i dall be pic pn vr
cas Nameplates. Each cables sem shal incl a nare. ono To appalto repuirmenti f 240 hel be pr
plate at cach ieminating end Of the sic with the manag. LP: The applicable eg oF 240.4 shalt be ped
Fires name o Tate detignation ant maximum dames.  () Rating of Overcurrent Protection — Branch Cres, Fix:
pumber voltage rating, and arpacity ol te conto to be 148 bus siero alo a branes rcs sl be proton
jure, age wing, sd amp be con le me led rch ce si be pi
® taentificasion Each scton and fitng of a cablebus Epo: Ti pple guint of 240.4 snk be pit
Sete hall be enh wi a ching that cortespond 19 :
EE taco ation tracts {0 Transformer Secondary site Bas Sem, Flexible
he i ai bus systems installed on a ransionner secondary to the discon
eci anti osereumeni protection detice shall be pote fr
errant tont in accordance vi HOHE
® Fexible Bos Symes from Generator Terminale. Flexible
stems aA or generator ei ha Te th
ARTICLE 571 ste requizement in 115.13 shall be permitiod to be proteica
Flexible Bus Systems against overload by the generator oreriaad protoct vc device (5)
Ered ny Ma 17
Pant, General (F) Poe Bas Syms trom Basery Terminale. Flexible bis
Sete installo or battery sete shall be proteatoti thd
$701 Scope, This atic mcs the use and installation Serene in atomo ee eh ZANTE
remo Tex i os snes and carts
enor fod . ©) Reduction in Sia of Flexible Bos Symeme. Overeureeni
$71.6 Lining Requiremento, Flexible bus ssc shall be proteclon shall be cones at pind bre Henle Du
fica Fstersare reduce in site
dseopion: far pp —
Pan tl. tnatsion ion. sal de ted ots ws a Fritto das i
' ete in. ste wii ot ge 1 olo ug sven
$7L10 res Permitted. Flexible bus spies shall be peri: nessa meee sess ot ct 5 mB nto one
eo th tli Fata ai ini qual io one rd Be gr gol et
(1) Serviers, eeders, and branch ciccuits dice ahead of the point of connection and provided ha! svi a lexi
iB omer Sie i misto om ait wi combat mi
3 Onis donb fo outdoor we $7015 Fri Bus Sys nninllation, boson of Nesi.
(9 alli cosh wes. of damp cations where ene ath) tgs CE)
© Expo (A) Mamfuctuer's Lasiallation Instruciona. Flexible bus
(8) Behind access panels where the space behind the access teme sl be taller design engineering pen on
panel not usc Fo air handling purposes and in accordance with the manutatturer Inez tong, cht
cn Fo pirate through wall am fs in accordance wich ng upper and securing All doaimentation shall oe oda:
fides Die to th authority having secon.
$71.12 Caen Nos Pemied, Flexible bus syscrs shall not be (8) Physical Damage. Flexible bus sites sutgoci to physical
Deri be tate inthe following: “Garage shall hat e appronca proteine mean cao
@ tiene aio] Noe Tid welds of pein lie ba
Boers uprec to severe physical darmge fischer founded
(lardo iho ovations. mis specially ea
persitioalin Comptech © Rowe FI
“Transversely Rosie Flexible bussyicrn shall be peri
0) Aichandling spaces ted to extend ransersch through patttions oc walk if the
$7109 Unsialimzion Design Flexible bus teme shal be Seti wih he vall it connie and prove agai
designer and spochied la speribe insiallation alte spplitatione physeal damage, Where the flexible bus piene pena a
By a aie engineer webinars of sh ig and Weta od mali or partition, the palin shall be
Manic katy inairactione. AU documentation made in accordano sth 0821
matic to toe auction CDI Toa Dey Eos and Boo. Foi buy seme
$7017 Overcumeni Brocton. Oven prosceion shall Shall be pric onc sce cagh de Thar and
Be prot accordance wi BF TIA) hgh (1 Pint. Where th exis bis tems pencrate a fee
8 Rating of Overcurreta Prtesion — Services, Flexible bus carats ted log or cel. ie installation shall be made in
sisters italica or services shall be protettori agaliat avere
Font in accordance sot 28099
re [Ep
Sommer NEPA Foren a use co NEPA Fre fess fr No! ra tin con cus rs
Roeser


--- PAGINA SUCCESSIVA ---

ARTICLE 872 — CELLULAR CONCRETE FLOOR RACEWAYS, mw
® Through Floors and Platforms in Ver Locations, Foxibk (A) Syme Nameplave, A yrs replat shall contain the
bus yen shah De peomeot to exe verba (hgh manulacturer nare or Fadarath and the oible bus sisters
floors and pao in net location se lls Ting The sang hab include the voltage, phase. rent

Fain, short ceaik current ating, ancl ppbeable emitonmen
th Wbete tone are cuba cote mile mene io prevent ee shall tall at cach end ol te
a Sadie hough the flo ar Platt om opened seal Se Bus mom The namephie tah be viii aes istalla

the floor penetration tion.
Where the flexible bus systems pencirate a firesesstant {B) Associated Fittinge. Associated fittings shall be marked as
cate thos or ceding, tre installation! shall be made in accord. Sable or flexible bus ste
fits © Pexible nena Bas. The flexible nui bus shall be
i Tack along the ula mita e manifaorer mame ot
$7190 Terminations. Flexible bus ssc ter mnations shall 5
$7120 Teominasons Floste Caer voltage, manutacticer® part Menification, and
an pont ange
8 Terminuion Fitting or Connector. Flexible bus systems
Shall e terminated ss ge on comet bcd ter Sow:
Be bus siamo
JT —
on orion mio, ARTICLE 572
©) Connection 10 Equipment The connection of a flexible ‘Cellular Concrete Floor Raceways
Bus sister to the Aton er shall compl with one
otte ola
(1 Be lstod and macked by the specific distribution equi Pan E General
ment asan acceptable means tomiation $70.0 Scope. This article covers cellular concrete floor racc.
@ Be led and identibed lor the specific distribution ways, the hollow spaces in floors constmucted of precast cellulare
oie aranaccepiable means of lorninaton pisheciivuiphus ai suitable metal fitigs designed io
cn Beorporato. a pari oi the Bed Tene bit tom a Peo ate ra
raion box fo inertace bemeon the exile Bus
a the distribution equipment
$7130 Securing and Supporting. Flexible insulated bus Pari FE. Ensiallatione
conductor shal be tupporica on Kdenttica mounting means $7E12 Ores No Permined. Getto shall not be inate
dai iuervalt nor greater than 00 mr (3 11) or borironial rane in reenact cance Boor ieesanga ae ollonst
Gna 50 rara (I 11) tor alt ns arate petit
: (1) Where subiect ———
tod by the produci sing Flexible bus are shall he secured
me n aia ee (2) In any harardous febssiBed) location, except a pormi
FAN dhroogh (Cy cote attider n thi Cd

In commercial garages, he tha fos sopping cing
(A) Assoriaea Fitting. Acie ings sal be part of a dee a ox Eo 10 the arca below i ot nk
fetbrtn bus aste Se
® Sappori Breck The support brackets tor floc bus Ifo Note Se 300,8 for imialition of coir
ater shall be sceured to the building structure of to other 308 ther tes
cm Wing ec 0h BAT Ae. 37318 Celular Concoete Flor Raceway ntl. ls
© Suppon Ty Flexible bus syste shall be pemitiod to ton oF cellula conaicte ont aromas Shall comply ih
be nab in support Han supplied sod gs tor STINE) though CE)
the lied flxile bus stem Support mars shall not be A; eae: The header shall be installed ina sigh le at
cequicod to be continuous cight anges to the celle, The header shall be mecha icalle
71.40 Shon Crh Gren Rag Fisk bus cos shall =< hop al the pecs Cellular concrete None The
barca ches cue ee lor ish Se ing hl clove 1 a mcg pg and aot

Gi Folin: throughout fo cn lenta and ral be ie
$7400 Grauming Conduce sated ig support tor FA bate oh Coie dl he ARE on ae
flexble bus sysems o ed together and grounded {B) Connection 10 Cabinets and Other Enclosures. Grice:

Lio ro Arado: to cabincis and other crelosares shall be
Pan tl. Construction Specificaione made by cans listed metal owas and Hit Hr
71.120 Marking, Each section of flexible bus systems shall be {€) Junction Boxes. junction boxes shall be lescled to the
mattea wh Ihe mana nare of Tak designation, ont grade and eed apa Bhe Treo nes of mater of
ha ng a ere ng ange hal pe ies cial Soe mao wh Be heades
[A own

omy Fei a a NEPA Fre Acar Noi fr it tion cose cu rn
Fan Coo Ace Tare ateneo Use Corali SAS


--- PAGINA SUCCESSIVA ---

sme ARTICLE 571 CELLULAR METAL FLOOR RACEWAYS
©) Inserta asc shal be kwckd and scakd agains the $7.18 Cellar Metal Floor Raceway Insallations, Insalla.
entrance of eoncrete. Insets shal be of metal and thal be ton of cellula meta floor rps shall complr wih
fica i round pe coscpaccr, An equipment ground 574.AMA) larough (DI
ing condor or bonding Jumper shah connect the Insert ines and Exons from Cel
ESR IEE anco pmi rile Com 1 oe ng Erne from ot
ater. Where ting through the cell vl foc setting neers SOREL Been owen a Mediante opie d
x ihc purposes (ud 35 providing acon opening PACT lt, esis etl onal her not Installed in concrete,
cas and celle, chip and et dir shall not be allo fo Conduit Nexible metal conc installed in concrete.
oman in the cay and th tool used shall be designed so so 8 metal condult, intermediate metal onc, kia)
tO en Te Tok om tng te cella arg the Salle tabi, or approved age Where thor ac pron
conductors tor, iia posing chloride conduit enforcoa ther pmscling
© Markers. A sukabl number of markers shall be insialed resin Conduit. chica nonmetallic tubing or liquidight Iles
{68 th future location et celle, ble nonmetallic cond shall be penmitica HELE eal in
conciete, iquidighi Nexible metal nt and lu
$720 Sine of Contactors No conductor lager than peel”, linuidlighe Mexble metal conduit and liquidright
ER SE JET 9 abi nc cont le (ted and ree È
37222 Maximum Number of Conductor. The combined
Coetctonat rc of a condatio oe ae dali noreszocd Junior Bom, Junction boxes shall be eck io the
90 percent ol the crossscational arca of he ell oc header com Juncion boxes sed vil thee ena shall be of
$7228 Ampaciy of Conductors The ampadry adjusument meal and Shall be chet ally ontimaous with the races
factors at provided in AIDING) shal apply 10 NITE (0) Tomer inserto tak be clo to the floor grades and
inallcdincelala concrete los ava. Sie sgainri dhe catranee di sonercie. fd ate
37256 Spies and Tape, Splice and taps shall be made only metal and shall he ictal conto wih te roca. In
{n header seta no eo bone? commas i Cain through the cell all and “ting oe 5 and
ao au a mt Other dirt sha not be allowed to cemaln In te acer. and
fay tools shall be tec that are designed to prevent the toa from
entering the cell and damaging the Conductor
372.58 Dimontinued Quiles: When an outlet is abandonca, E id
Meconiinaed, o removed he sections of chek condones (9) Markers suitable number of markers shall be installed
Camping the oul, shall be remosod Fim the cacy. No for cating Sols nthe ore
obec of ceinsulatod conductora, such as nou be be Cic Of 7690 Sine of Comdarione No conducior larger thas
ue of Conductor. No _conducior large than
Faron cies loop wig. Mall be allowed in ava 3 al eo SAI
37422 Maximum Number of Condurars in Raceway, The
combined aosssecional arca of all ever: or cable hall
Not exceed 40 percento! he Interior crs secon acca al the
ARTICLE 374 olorbeader
$78.25 Ampacity of Conductors The ampaty adiusuneni
Cellular Metal Floor Raceways factors in 801500) hall apply to conduciorsinstalicd in cello
la: metal lon racemase
Pant. Ceneri 374.56 Spies and Tape. Splice and tape shall be made onl
$74.1 Scope, This arick covers the use and installation. in header accossunior junction boxes
requirements or cellulae metal Foo scema For the purposes of thi soelon, socalled loop wiring
874.6 Liming Buia, Cellular ovo lor maccnagi and (continunus unbroken conductor conneeing the nda
$748 Ling Repent Ce SE Sol nor oA io be a Eo tap
$74.5 Dimontinued Outs. When an outlet is bandon,
' onium, or ewe the soc of CEU eonduttors
Pan. fomalizion Sapam te oi tl como from he cy No
$7.12 Uren Nat Purmined, Conduciers shall not be insalied TARTS oe clnsalatoa onductore, such a would e Th case
in cellalar metal hoo ee ae olor Vitt andor ses on loop win. nil be honed in
(I) Where subject ho corosive vapor
(2) Inany batardous (ehsahe location, excep as perni
edb other artidesin the Code Pari HI. Construction Specifications
tin commercial garages, other han for supplying col
Ouse of exientione 16 the acta below the Moor but nai 370.100 General. Cella: meal floor caccwass shall be
pi commuciod a adegumie carat and” mechanical
Soni of the complete mmem vili be secured. They hall
isl Nove: Ser 5009 fo milion of condos om cori Pie Mel be bred They tht
RISER Rarfaccs shall he {ce from hs and thar os, an sucfaces
Heh comueror are Ean sal be Sa. Sultable
re [Er ——
Copp NEPA Foren use oo NEPA Free Access gt Not dr ai 40% our GHG Gr Gn
For vreune Coa. Seed oarS 70 BEST AUTRE ue SO CSTR


--- PAGINA SUCCESSIVA ---

ARTICLE 76 — METAL WIRE WAS sass
bushings or ings having smooth sounded ges shall be $7628 Insulated Conditions. nsulated conductors instal
provi where conc pace Ina aca owas chal orp wih 375.250) nd (6)

(A) Defect nite Conductor Where inulie condue.
lo are Saleen a metal wine. ots a It on of
ete cords, Ting. or other tara of Abs enter o
leave the metal wireneti, or Kher the Aceon of the metal
ARTICLE 576 es dellccisa grees than A degre, dimensioni ie.
Metal Wireways ping to ene Nite per mind Im Table SE sal
® Meal Wireways Used as Pull Boxes. Where insalata
Pur. Ceneial Corduziors 1 AMC or larger are pall through a mov, the
«ateo covers the we, mall, and Ainance ete agra and cable entries Sao Th dame
So Thi ank gori men ot SGC
con ee for right pols and 34 ZAA) 2) ox ang pls. When an
i ing Gable siae nto ast inc, the minibus ee desig.
Favor {ade oe) raceway teu Lo he number and siae of
Pari IL Installation orator in the cable sha De me
10 Ore Permined The ino of metal wins o $76.8 Secwing and Supporting. Metal viens shat be
37010 Gre Premia. To eof icv sali he 538 Sy a Spo, od
Jar ——— (A) Horizontal Support. Wiscuays shall be supported where
In an Famed. (lied) locaton ar pric by un bodiontali, at cach end and ai mca no to cx
eo Pam iO on for indradual Ke og tan 1 Ha
e ea ie ete views are etc for the ach end orjoimi, unk Flo fo other upport inal. The
me tance teen supports all no! need rm (IP 5
in concealed space as an extercion tht panes Ee (B) Vertical Support. Vertical nins of virenaps shal be
versely through walls, if the length passing through the securely supported al (COR not escocding dA fa (15 1 and
IE iran, ares oh cor shall be main: earls SUPPONE al i xing 19m (15 1
nee vali not tate more than one join beeen, supporti Adin:
Re micway sectione shall be sturchy tend Togo ihre 10
$76.12 Ores Not Permitted. Metal cont shall not be used prowl atigid ein
in the following: $76.58 Splice, Tupi and Power Distritazion Blocks.
(1) Wheto sbject to severe physical dara I ted
(2) Where sube to ver doi em ponents (A) Splces and Tape, Splice and taps shal be promi
Sitbin sicyn, prot sedi they are ache The conduciors
$7620 Conductors Connecied în Parallel Where single inci Spies and ape, shall not 3 the wks 10 more
Conductor cable cape Fg ath phase: Ewa or Ea han 79 percento eas that point
Conductor o an atermarng zare Shc are comma ne
Paral a perineal in SINC), the conduciare all be (8) Pover Dinribunion Blocks.
Intallog In groups coming of not more han anc conductor (1 Installation. Power dstcibution blocks insaled in metal
per phase, neutra, or groundedcondogior cam shall be Ree, Poet ican ticks installed on
Ie Une side a ot service sae tak be marked Sa
Aforismi Rote: The urine Ching a parallel conduce cip: 3
torio wii he sante granai even seven bane forse on the line side al eves cquipment’accquivalent
ists Ac Abdi © Son of nce In lon to dhe spre epi
$7621 Siae of Conduriors. No conductor ager than that for mere in FA). the power dstibaton. block thal be
bic the wires © er shall be rally in any wien tal in a cus eh dimensione not slice than spe
a umn Sons a pt. Toe men Bn, urinate Aon
donaci cable an ie spay Sha comple wit
$02) and (6) (8) Wire Bening Space. Wie bending space at the terminale
pont Remo shall pl an 12
seational arcas of all coniancd conductor: and cables at any (9) Live Parts Power distribution block shall not fave unin
Cross section of a way sali nek ceed n roc of the Sale parts poe hin won. or not he
interior cts arcane arca of the aio Sesay arto
(8) Adjosument Factors. The adjustment factors | SIN.1BIC) (5) Conductors. Conductor shall be ranged so the power
1 shall be applica on whee the number of current carvmg baton lock terminale are Amante fling ek
Condutiors, (olin Heute) coo hho ae carn, anon
Saying under SIA TBE), oxo SO a any chs sccuon of
the ewe. Coton for signaling circus or sonal
conduciors between a motor and 12a ana used ry for
Sang duo shall nor be considero ai Sur MLA NE
pr
rn SATONALELECTRK ALGO: oz
Copp NEPA Foren use oo NEPA Free Access gt Not dr ars buo con GR Gr Gn
Fr euns Coa. Sepa Sa rear union dea ue SoA CSTR


--- PAGINA SUCCESSIVA ---

ssa ARTICLE 574 NONMETALLIC WIRE WaYS
376.58 Dead Ends. Dead cn of metal wievays shall be 2) Where subject io comosie cov onmens where denied
closed forthe ee
$7080 Going, Lett metal weeny shall be prod as 15 tons ubere te for the purpose
dn cqupment goundag Sonduaor In accordance” wih Wamu] Note: Ee old way cone nomial sie
mat Pogo A i o
priority
$76.70 Extensions from Meal Wirewaps, Exicnsions from
iy shall be made with cord pendants installed in accord. (4) As extension to pass transwersck through walks if the
ance wih 40.14 or wth are wiring method in Chaptes 3 that length pa sing though ie wal È anbroken, eve fo
includes a means for equipment grounding. Where a separate the concer maintained on bath sides of t
equeneni roanding Ital i ply, connection of val
the Cquipmeni grounding conduciori In the wiking method 10 75.09 Gres Nor ermine. Nonmetallie wiewmsshallnot
the wk shall compl wi 250 # and 250.12 om pomined. Nenmetali valina be
0) Whee subject physical damage
ari HI. Consinaction Specifications (In any hatatdoie sio) Iocation, except as pormi.
Pan HI, € ion Specificatior tedbyother artides in this Code
878,100 Consinacion Whee expo to sunlight unless listed and marked as
(A) Elecuical and Mechanical Contimuity, Wicways shall be (Sable Dede PUPO riemperatures other than ho
comruacd and etalk so tar ckasical and mechanical ners subject to ambient temperatures other than those
continuity of the complete sistem are assured. oy Lx which nonmetallic irae is lit
© For conduciors whe inrulation emperatuce imitations
® Sobral Consrucion. Wisways shall be of substantial would excced thos for which the nonmetallie wecway is
construaion and shall provide a Ample endosute for the lisca
Co lcs Coll eo SNC 579.20 Condurtore Coperte in Barth, Where single
Sali be suitably protected ham corrosion, Comet ints shall 278.20 Conductors Conmeriea in Paral. Where single
be rado tight, and where ie sme Is bold ogee by ctor cables comprising cach phase. neutral, or ground
ists, bok or screws, such fastenters shall be spaced fio more Conus of an aliematiyg aree clruit aco comnocted in
ls bol x i, parallel as pemitod In SILAG(C), the conduciort
i i dle pusnlnge, ae Diba groups coin vo more han one condi
(€) Smooth Rounded Edges. Sulablc bushings, hicks, or per phase, eutial of rounded conductor to pent Curcent
ings having rth, Coded Fae hal be proided whore  imbalane in the paral condurtor due fo inductise cea
conduciors pass hewn MECNaYS, hough pane, around aA
Pen, been vitevayy and inc af juncdon boxes andat
> 37821 Sze of Condertore. No conductor larger than that for
other locations where iocerany to preveit arson of the ins LL noametallic wae i designed shall be metal in
tion of the conductors. any nonmetallic wicway.
©) Cavers Covers shal bo scurcls ened io Bo WES. 300 of Gomdugon The sum of erosional
$75,120 Mackig, etal viceais shall be 0 racked vt thie Arca of ll cota condor or cables at any cross serion
imanutacurers Rame or rademark il be wml alter installa: of he nonmetallie Neca hall ot caceod 20 pce of the
on interior cromareional ara. of the nonmetal. wien
Condutron Tor signaling cireulta ee controller ondudtori
betucen a motor and its arcs and iscd only for sarting duty
shall not be considered a: cure ang contactor
“The adisunent factors speciicd in $10.11 shall be
ARTICLE 378 applicabic the current ar ing condueiort up rand cut
N ie Wi ing the 29 percon Spt in the fer paraggi of th
$72.28 Inbred Conductor Insulated conductors naked
Pant. General ina nonmetallie Eons shall comple with 374.234) and 8),
378.1 Scope. This article cover the we, installation, and (Ay Defleced Insalated Conductor Where insubicd conduc.
construction specifications for mammal visevass and Soc tor are delleeted wii a honmetalli wirewas, St at the
atea tango. ends 0 vere cones, fising, or other caus af cabs
. Soe cave the nonmetallic imeay, of bere the dive tion
3786 Listing Requirements, Nonmetallic wiewass and 3505-6 the nonmetallic wirewsy & defected greater than 1
ated biting shall be listed. cos, dimensions corresponding to one wire per terminal in
TE 6A) sal app
Pan I Innializion (B) Nonmetalic Wirewaye Osed as Pull Boxes. Where insula.
id conductort 4 AMC of larger arc pulled terug a irons
$7810 Ore Pergine, The use of nonmetallic nicewars shall ‘he Aistanee beve arewai and able net cng ThE
premitcdinthe following same conductor shall noi be le than hat cenuiced in
0) Only for exposed work excepts pected in STRIDL 3200 (1) for sxaght ple and In 392A or angle
ull When Transposig cable siae Ino raceway se, the mini
ren SATHONALLECTR ALCO Sri
Coat NEPA For ent ve a or NEPA Free Access stn Net fr as Buon Gu gian cranny
Far aa ono ae roar om APS use coat RE


--- PAGINA SUCCESSIVA ---

ARTICLE i — MULTIOLTLET ASSEMBLY wan
imam metri designato: ———
Mer a ee Ide Sb Sali lee ARTICLE 380
$78.30 Securing and Supporting. Nonmetallic wicca shall be Multioutlet Assen!
EE OCA) and (6) ty
(A) oni Support Nol sivas shall be pan Gm
supported where run horizontally at intera not to excced PANE General
Son on El LITE DISET saa Scope This aride cones the use and installation
Tr a he TE ey en RT
supports exceed 8 m (101) Unformational Note: Ser Aide 100 for the definition of muti
(8) rica Support rial uns ol rol views; Sendo
[pee Gr N ed  T
8,0, me ried ses pens ee nT Pan tl inalinion
Te ai LAE TOSS 3010 One poesia The ue of ious sm
provide a rigid joint. shall be permitted in dry cations.
378.44 Expansion Firings, Expansion fittings for nonmetallic 580,12 Uses Not Permitted. A multioutct awcmblg shall not
EE a Er ieri ms, 301 Coe Hot Per y
ean oo 20%
fon and Si peer a api ro (i Where conceal, eacept ta li shall be pico
our it bad ad eroi a ca Fe
97058 Spc ama Tape, Spl and tap shall be pcmbicd 8 Whee dhe voliage i BO ol oe betwee conduc
ETA See ol SP e, sede ia O Ei È of mt mio Whe dl
ocio mal Ng EA IM mm (MIN
Te ema 19 es ep
$7258 Den Ends Dead ends of nonmetalli steve habe € 11ST dus cin) oat, sxe ar pi
closed using listed littings. ted by other artides in this Code.
$78.60 Grounding Where equipment grounding is coguirod, (7) Wheeecord and plug connected
è separato orang coir al De (MARRA. A 5028 toma Como. For eben
nonmetallic witoway. A separate equipment grounding condue-  assemblics, insulatod conductors shall comple with 380.234)
peg gg he ad
Lh Sn sho ed a © sary. © ae
| a1 Dec oe Consors hee insalate cond
378.70 Extensions from Nonmetallic Wires Extentions tor are deleted vithin a mulioutict scab, ther at the
maa sali be made Wh cord PEE Wa Se, pee eben ee
hed DE Chap DA tepore ‘equipment Sme a Doi Be ect
grounding conduct shall be alld in of an equipment of the mulloutkt assembly è delloeted greater than
Frounding comnertion a ig Sn do Zl embed gear bap
‘methods uscd for the xc sion. nal in Table 812.6{A) shall apply.
J Um as Pull Boxes, ylcre insula.
Part. Conminsion Spesdfonions ea po Besant bio
i a dieta een am ar ale ri
70.120 Min, oneal vic sali be makes ST, e dan bc sev and cable cor
Be The i te coy ed i SUE) for ht poll and 11000
Macking for limited smoke shall be pormited on the nonmetak pc minimum metric designator (trade sac) racovay required
goats tbe minimum mere deigmtor ate sic) crv rogue
$8078 Mew! ations Assembly Through Dry Parsons. 1
Me ote el Ta Dr io
og fo co il poo sagen ate
tas manine ap a sly bisa
eo mp ll POP


--- PAGINA SUCCESSIVA ---

sasa ARTICLE SH — NONMETALLIC EXTENSIONS
smlipaper, tile. mali pancling. or other similar materials and
ARTICLE 382 instaliedin accordance with BE 1500).
‘Nonmetallic Extensions 382.24 Bends.
(A) Nonmetallic Extensions. A bond tha ceducos the nocaml
an È Gene Pacing between te conduciore shall be coveted nità a cap to
Pan È General protect the assembly from physical damage,
Ee fer nonmictallic esenzione"  (®) Concealabie Nonmetallic Exendons. Concealable exer:
peri sione shall be permitted to be fokled back mer themeclscs and
$826 Listing Requirements, Concealable nonmetallic cus Natienod as coake fos maton.
Font and Soca gs and devi shall be listed The spo Si Seam
starting /source tap device for the extension shall contain and Securing and Sup porting.
provide the following pracction for all ad tke estensione (A) Nonmelallic Extensions. Nonmetallic surface estensione
anddevices shall be secured in place by approved means at ntervals not
0  Supplementary grercustent preection Examen 200 mm 3 ini, wih an lance for 390 mim
€) Levi! protection cqivaich roa Class A GO al) to the fim ani vba he comin to he
{Lovo of protection squsalent toa portable GFL supphing outlet by means ol an attachment plug. There si
roa Beat ok one fastening tween cach io ABER outlers
(3) Froside proteaion fromibe evs aface Gaulis supplica. An cxicnrion shall be attached 1 only work of
Pcs ii and hall not be iu contact sth any metal wock oF
Biber condulive material other than ih meta plates on
Pant. Fnsalizion reccputios
38210 Uses Penmined. Nonmetallic extensions shall be (B) Concealable Nonmenllic Estensione All surface.mounicd
een i orata 10 (6) and (0 “oncealabie nonmaraile extension components shall be fiori
archotcd to the all or cling using an adhesire or mechan
(A) From an Exiting Ouiei The essension shall be froman hemor sic Sind for ale ue
“ing ult ona 15 or ampere branch ckeult Where a denied
concealable nonmetallic extension originates foom a non 38240 Boxes and Fitting. Each cun shall terminate in a
ig pe tocepiacie, the na bai shall comply with ing, connector o box That covers the end al the asce
E1300 100 AAD), or RADI) ings, connettori, and dees shall be oa pe denied
® Exposed and in a Dry Location. The estension shall be
Gun expo of conccaled as ered in SALAD, and ina dis 38.42 Devices
aon
(A) Recepuaiex. A cccptacks,cccptack housings, and cl
(© Resisenal or Offs. For nonmetallie surface xcvions SONS] ke conan ue
mounted directly on the surface of walls or ceilings, the build- sione shall be identificd for dis usc.
ing shall be octupird for ess or Gillet putposcs and ceepracten an Honsinga Receptade housings and sele
hall not cxcoed thtce lors above gad. Where identica for (0) Recepiackea and Homsings, Roccptade housing: and sell
contano Aevccs designed other for aatace (or recon
{he uc. concealable nonmetallic extensions shah be permited Sonica dete dovigped ihe for face of fo rowed
more than three Ion above grade, ng pe
E tall extensions. Recepiade housings and selfeontaincd devi.
formation Noe No, 1: Ser SOLA for ienperiare cos shall Incorporate means for fadlliating ener and
mito svi tenniation of Sonteabble nonmerallie caren. and Tot
4 ekcercaly connccing he housing or device. Recepiari and
mi Soc 2:5 2 Oreo af Fi Poor hE connecting he bowing a doer Mocepucle and
$32.12 Usea Nor Permined. Nome tali extensions shall ot Commankalione aus instalica tothe In common basog
be usa as foams: Shall be permitca in accordance with MOSSAD). Exec
(1) In unfinished bascments, attics or coof spaces tion No. 2
(2) Where the voltage betwen conductors excccde 180 volts 882,56 Splices and Tape, Extcnions shall const of a continu
for nonmetalie ars e smensionr and Sf solisfocacrial eur anbenkea lengih af The astetbly, rout she ami
py Gui parca aco beeen. Mths, Connector, or
Whee satyectto cmos rap. Sevics, Tan shall be permitica where approved ings
(1) Whee tun through a look oc partion, oc outside the completely roving the Lap conneetione are upd, Aerial GE
Toor in vic lr atiginater ana its ap connettori al be provided With an appreso
’ means for polation, Keeeptadetype tap connector. all be
30015 Expomd means oc poli
(A) Nonmeatic Exensions. (ne or more extensions shall be
permtiod to be run In any dirceuon From an cxiting outket,
Far noton Ue lor or iin mm {2 1 fron the or Part HI Construction Specifications Concealable Nonmetal
the censiona tml)
(B) Concealabie Nonmetallic Extensions. Where identifica fo
the We, nonmetallie estensione shall be permitcd 1 be 888.100 Consracton. Concealable nonmetallic estensione
Concealed wih pain, texture, concealing compound, Pl, shall be of a mullarer a conductor design consising of a
020 NMTIONAL ELECTA AL CODE Bresson
Copri NEPA For ext uve 150 NEPA Free Access attori Not dr ai 40% our GHG Gr Gn
Fr vreune Coa. Seed oarS 70 rear AUTRE ue Cora: CSTR


--- PAGINA SUCCESSIVA ---

ARTICLE 344 — STRUT-INPE CHANNEL RACEWAY 9458
center ungrounded conductor cncksed by a second groun- Part H. Enstalsion
dot conductor and an overall sectioned equiprient SRE 30410 Ges Perminea. Toe ine of st pe channel cacce
hall be permite in e following
$62104 Fia Conituriore. Conccalable nonmetalli ealensions 1) ser
tic od ssh ln copper epi) aot,
ANG oc 12 AWG conductor ses, and construc 3) In locations subject to comosive sapees whee protected
BRLDIA), (BI and (0) by linishesapprotca lor the condition.
(A) Ungrounded Conductor (Cemer Layee, The ungrounded (1 pont pokes
CoE cont of oe Tot mere 1 In hampton {nel locations a petted in Cap.
Condactorte) enclosca In accordance wh BZ BABI and (©) teed
andidentiicd in accordance wich 31 HC) 6) Ax extensions of unbroken lengibs through valk, parti
on, and Hors where clove Sips ake temorable fom
® Grounded Conduaor (Inner Sectioned Lape) The cither side an the portion within the wall, partition, o
rounded conductor shah conser of ma sectioned inner lat Torsone,
conductors that enchse the erect ungrounded conductors). (7) Fewous channel taconans and figs protected from
The sectioned grounded conductor shall be enckeed by the comosion solely by enamel shall be permiticd only
|: : po i
toned equipment grounding conduttor and identica in rr
accordance ith 2006,
584.12 Ovex Not Permined. Strut-pe channel acevasi shall
(© Equipment Grounding Condortor, (Over Sectioned ote lion
Leper. To cquipment iunding conductor shall const of rs apne N
tun overall sccloned conduce: that caciore he wounded (3) Whee comeealoti p
Conductor and ungrounded conductor) and shall comply (2) Fertous chat] cacovass and iting protected from
ih 250 MAG), The oqipmont grounding conductor gree comoson soll by enamel shall not be permed bere
hal be identifica by any one of he following method: subject to severe corrosie inlluences
(1 Asperminodin 250.119 364.21 Sine of Conductor. No conductor larger than that for
@ Adearcorceng ‘hich the raceway is ited shall be ald in su ype chan
(8) One or more continuous gece por o hash marks nelraecvays
(9 The rem Equipment Grounding Conductor” riniedat 564.22 Number of Condariore The number of conductors oc
regular invervab thoughout the cable cabice permkted in stare channel movase shall not
S9.112 Insalation The ungrounded and grounded flat execcd the perceniage NL using Tabk SAI and applicable
Conductor agers shall be Indidaalis inulatcd and comply ossecational arca ol specie po and sxc of vie ghen in
sith BBA). Toe equipment grounding contactor shall the tables in Chapter 9.
be covered orinsulacd. The adjustment actor al IIS) (1) shall not apple to
262.420 Marking. conductors tall in sruttype channel cacouass bere all of
ge , dle Pe folioving coniions ae me
Be (1) The crosescctional arcaof the raceway exccode 250 mm?
10 mm (21 in) with the information required by 310 HA) {in
and with the Follows additional brass tn The came carning conductors do not exeeed 30 in
(1) Material of onducior (8) The sum of the aossscctional arcas of all contained
© Maximum temperature cating conductors docs not exceed 2% percere of the croc
(5) Ampacity ore chon arca of the Ye channel cava
(B) Conductor Identification. Conductors shall be clearly and 384,30 Securing and Supporting.
durabiy Mdenitica on both sider throughout the lengih ae “ppi
spedihedin 2 01 (A) Surface Mount. A surface mount sate channel ace
way shall be scared to the mounting surface vità tetention
sape ememal to the channel at intervalt not excocding 3 m
(10) and within 900 mmm ($ 1) of cach outlet box, aint,
Junction box, or tr channel cacca termi nation.
ARTICLE 384 (B) Suspension Mount. Strutsspe channel rcewass shall be
«mitica to be sutpension mounicd in sic with identified
Strut-Type Channel Raceway Methods at nenval noi 19 exceed 3 m (10 10 and thin
00 mm 5 ft) of channel acne terminations and enc.
Pan È General 384.56 Splices and Tope: splicesand tape shall be permiticdin
ont Seem Toi ariete e ia aca tha are accettible alter inriallation bs hing a remore
i Scope, This arch cones the we, balan, and coer The conductors, Including plc and tape, shall
construction specifications af strut pe channel races ot ii ty to more th 7 cof 1 arca di th
$940 Living Requirements, scope chanel ccs and POI. All pcr and tape shal be made by spond metho
accesories hall be listod and Lhd fo such se.
Debio NAN ELECTRA CODE 0m
Coat NEPA For ent ve a or NEPA Free Aes psn No! fr ai Eno" ou Gian cranny
For tires contati ti SSE oACr “o (PF "AUT an ue COE ESAS


--- PAGINA SUCCESSIVA ---

‘Table 384.22 Channel Siam and Inside Cross Sectional Area
_— ARTICLE 386
size Area We Ares” BF Ares" Surface Metal Raceways
Ghd nt nnt int mm! wl mm?
Vo oa sm 05 m9 Oa Wank, General
Us Th ows mr oom ws h
(vali Ver wie Ged Bh 049 270 M6 Scope This artick covers the we, installation, and
Veli dom 1308 ORI 328 0307 Sr consrucuon specifications lor dace metal cena a aver
Mint 3109 wb 1267 aie ame SH cdf
Vol Gms mw moun om 68 pi so. Sat ace metal raceway and sss
WS Th age es a N 2008 Living Regurementa sudare metal roar
lil  la2A 179 0731 472 047 wh di
Vos aml ws 020 mi os st
WA 27 ism om 0961 6B pd fnstalinion
Toca exc er me 3 perc nine I
baton Gece he athe orcs etc 366.10 Usca Permitted The we of suctace metal ronan
"Racca: sath intemal princes shall as a 25 percent wie fill shall be permitted in the tollowing:
cala to determine bet ere ered todo locations.
€) In Cho ©. Dision 2 hazardous (classifod) locations as
ing. Strut-fipe channel racevay chdosures permed in 201.1081)
providing 4 (1) Exiciion cough wal and floors. Suda metal race.
Fare meate or competing an oquipmeni gourd conc Exe orang alle and floors Suter metal cor
ox Serpe chan cco hab be pod 35a Fp. por os gh dy
pe ale dev partons, and dy oor 1 the length pores
ment grounding omducor in accordanee vith 201 D(A) ecg ie unbroken Accert to the conducton shall be
masi È re o achieve clccttical continui in accordance ih maintain on beth sides! the vali partition, or lor
the iting, thi conce shall not be pr as the means for 96.12 Usa Not Permit. suctace metal sco shall not
providing electrical continui tor a rceptack mood In he be wn the omen:
had (1) nee subject to scvere physical damage, unless other
i @ West ibn voltage 10 sol between condi
an HI. Consiraction Specifionione (2) Were the valage is 310 vos or more betwen conde.
Pan HI, €. Sp: tors, unless the metal has a thickicss of not less than
584100 Consiraction. Strut type channel raceways and ihcie 108 mm 00m in) nominal
accessorice shall be of a construction that dtinguishes thom, (5) Where subject to cota rap
rom ober occas. Racers and tie chan, ouplagh and (1) In haisenss
thee tings shal be designed such that the ection can be (3 Where concealod, excep as perc in 36.10
Cloctialy and mochanials coupled ogee and installed
a tg he tei to ton They Sh omg 86:0 Sine of Contac. conductor ages tan tht tor
“ith 381.100CA), (8), and (CO. which the cacy is designed installed in surtace
8) Merit, Racer nd accessories shall be formed ol 586.22 Number of Conduriors or Caen Th number of
conductors o cables iretalicd 0 suctce metal races shall
(8) Corrosion Protection Soe) amy and acessoric shall not be greater than he number fo Which the carey 15
be protec agaltei corosion a gabanizing or by an organic designed Cables shall be peri to be mall vece sich
coatta fuse & hot probibiica by the peeve cable attiles
Uiformialional Note: Enamel and PWC coalingi att campale: sf “The adjustment factors of 310.13) (1) sali not apply 10
rites yan on conductors hae In sist ace metal coca bic all ot the
+) Cover, Covers of sructipe chanel cacovays shall bellowing conditions ace met
ihe meal or Nonmetalle (1) hecrossacciional cca the acemay exec E00 mr?
anny
380120 backing. Each kerr of srutape channel EVE (ay TRO renteareying conductors do nor exceed 30 in
ol be Chay Eat anid Tenn an (2 he cent canyig conductocs do i”
sentence of 110.214) (3) The sum of the cosscctioml arcas of all contained
conduciori docs no coeeed 20 percent of the Interior
Croseseellonal ar of the setae al ery
366.50 Sereing and Supporing, Surlace metal cacy and
asvocatca ings shall be supportod in acocdance wih the
aac italian inslcietione
om NAMONA. LECCA CODE —
Copy REP For nce oor NEDA Free Access allor No! fr ars sn Gos cn eng
Foun co Soe own 70 portera dea ue LR SSM ATS


--- PAGINA SUCCESSIVA ---

ARTICLE 30 SURFACE NONMETALLIC RACEWAY s80.100
386.56 Splices and Tape Splicesand ps shal be preted in to the conductor shal be maintained on both sides of
surface metal cacouays hang a ora Cov that is accese the vali, patton, or lor.
ble atte insallation. The conductors inclodng specs and 48.12 aes Nor Permined surface nonmetallic racowas
taps, shall not Tl te racena 10 more han 75 percent of ns 38812 Ones Not Permined,
atea ai tha pom. Spicer and tape in surface metal ceva E
Without remosablc covers shall be made anki boxes, M ph (1) Where concealed except as peat $98 172)
ces and tpt shal be made by approved methods. © dime matie eh ler I
ape of Tipo FC cable mle in surface metal ccs Wis e lage 0 Slo more bese conch
shall be made 1 accordance with 822 CES) o anor med for higher voltage
386.60 Grounding. Surface metal raceway enclosures provid. (3) In any hazardous felassiod) location, except as poemi
rani fm alice ing mollo hl Inte a ae edb other ads he Coe _—
fo connecting an equipment graunding conduct 3) Where subject to ambient temperatures cxcceding those
"521 iper ron for which the nonmetallie raceras is ted
386.70 Combination Racevays. When combination surface (7) For conduciars whose insulation temperature limitations
metal caceivays are used for both signaling and fo lighting and od e «ced oe for ich Th nonmetallic racevav 5
power cic, the dicrent pere shall be run 12 separate pasty
Compariments identifica by Samp. imprinting, of color
Corbi of th interioe finish 588.21 Siae of Conductor. No conductor larger than tha for
which the acoway is designed shall be inaled in sudare
Monmetallk recov
Pan HI. Construction Specification 568.22 Number of Conduaors or Cablex The number of
586.100 Consimacion. Surface metal accyays shal be of such Conductor of cables inalied in surface honmeta lic eens
consrudion 35 wil disinguish them from other aconass, shall not be gator than the number for which the raconav is
Surface metal racers anti chon, couple and smilae designed. Cables shall be pected to be installed where such
fittings shall be deeignod so that the sections can be cicciricaliv 15 18 not probibicd by the respective cable articles
and recall Capo) ogc: an raed Mib 36950 Soin and Sipporing. Surface nonmenlle care
subjecting the wires to abrasioni aps and ascocbica tings shal be supported in accordance
Where covers and accessories of nonmetallie material ace Wi die manufacturers allan instrichon.
test a Met eva he Sol De MENTE 105 330.5 Spe nd Tape Spc and apa be perraiticd 1
such re. sts, neil cya bag cove capable biog
$96.190 Marking Each length of surface metal cacay shall peed in place that lt acer alter ingalhion. The
be cleacly and durably identified as ccqueed in the fit conductors including spbcos aie ape, shall ot ll the aconay
tere of 10.210) to more th 78 percent of is rca at that poi. Spies and
tape in sta nara macenaz whet Covers capable of
being opened in place shall be made only in boxes, AL plc
and tape shall be made by approved method
398.60 Grounding. Where equipment grounding is equites,
ARTICLE 388 fives dupaviin sib ii i the tace
Surface Noametallic Raceways hd
580.70 Combination Racewaye When combination, seface
nonmetale acowars are ee bath for signaling and for ghi
Pan È General ing and power circus, the diret stem shall be Fun in
separate Compartments dented by samping, imprintig, of
3881 Scope. The ack: covers the une, installation, and Share compen: dee Ping. impeintiag.
consrucuon specticaione fo surface ‘nonmetallie mics C7 Ag of theinieror finish
and associate Ringe.
580.6 Listing Requirements Surface nonmetallic acenay and Pan HI, Consiraction Specification
associated ites shall be fete. 588.100 Consirarion, Surface nonmetalle accra shall be
of such construction as wil distinguith them fom other race
. Tar Surface nonmetallie raconay and thee chow couplings
Pan H. nsializion and similar finge shall be signed so tha the socio can be
588,10 Uses Permined, Surface nonmetallic raceways shall be mechanically couple together and installed bout subjecting
pemmittoda: follows: The whee to shrason.
(1) The we of suface nonmetalle cacowags shall be perk. Stace nonmetallic ccevayi and fiinge ace made of ska:
din der locations bic nonmetallk material that @ resistant 10 vst and cher,
©) Extension through walls and Moore shall be pemittodi al atmospheres lt shall also be Thre ceca, onan 10
sudace nonmetallik accu shall be peminod to pas impact and crushing, tesitani to disiorton from heat under
manseney high dey valle, dey partiione, and des conditione Hcl to he encounterod in service, and cera 10
fior: Ft lengih passing through ie unbroken. Acco Serpette Sov
sesti NANA ELECTRA CODE 20.298
Copy NEPA or ent soe a NEPA Free Ades pron No! or si buio Sou ones ce gn
For tires contati ti SSE oACr “o (PF "AUT an ue COE ESAS


--- PAGINA SUCCESSIVA ---

sim ARTICLE 890 —UNDERFLOORRACEMATS
388.120 Macking Surface nonmeallc acevars ha have mi: than thee ing aronys ae cach sald sh with ie
empl pring characieisio Mal be pennitcd io beso concicle, inty Shall be niga wh oth abet ard ned
dhe Each length of surface nonmetal acm dall De do forma digid asremibb
oem. No conducioe ag ta ot tor
4 Hi th cacca 1 designa hah be en in none
$30.12 Maximum Number of Contos in Raceway. The
tondined ores clona arca of all onto: of cobs shall
ARTICLE 390 TERE prof oe sen ao the
Underfloor Raceways 390.28 Ampocity of Conductors The ampacity adjustment
fotos in BIDS) Shak app to conduciori insalica in
Punk, General ndedllooe mena
390.1 Scope. This arick covers the uw and installation $90.56 Splices and Tape Splces and tap shall be made one
cequirements for underfkoor faces. in junction boxes.
Fo ite purposes of iis section, socalica loop ing
' (continuous, unbroken conduct connecting dhe Ind ua
Pan H. Ensialiion outicts) shall not be considered to be a splice o¢ ap.
$90.10 Unca Permined, The installation of undctor ce ee hte rent mete i ar
line see benestare gi bo: Sls and pe sh rid in roche sh mer
ather looting material or in office occupancies where laid Pusan bi Cove that ds acvesie afer instiltion
ne p Conduct ing. pies and ion, sail noi Al mom than
{uh with he concrete Bor and covered ich linoleum or Seer, ide ples ond ap
ate loos meng.
$90.12 Ons Not Permit, Cecio ccs shall not be 0 LSP BR WEE 2 Sa Aen
installed (1) where subject to comosive vapors or (2) in any [RR ENE outlet shall be comaved from the. racenay No
hazardous {elassified) locations, except as permitied by pM 2 splices or ceinsulated conductors, such as would be the case
ana in Class I Din locatione a permea In SON AMS) PE ted ondurior, such ae would be ite care
3, Une made of a material approve for the condition er A abandoned outs on loop vichg, shall be allowed
lets nan pease sortase for he conio de
opi, metal tte lon Toowars, Junction boxer, and $30.70 Laid in Ssh Line. Undestor revs shall be
ing hall not Incl In comet om ave ayo laid so thar salga ne Fn dh center of one Jancis box
pict others do the comico he hens Junction Box hms ih ARE
cen of ne ann ier Races shall al held
390.15 Covering. Raccway coverings shall comply wih in place to prevent disturbing this alignment during construc-
890 AMA) dirough (0) i place to prevent disturbing is lg ducing
(A) Rocevays Noi over 100 mim (1 in.) Wide, Hal sound and em Ends, A suitable met shall be inetallod at
fa aerea e OO a NT IE vallo ali bare $907 Mars End, sae racer shall be ald
net loss than 57 mom 0% in.) of concrote or wood above the Reiner et
Eseepiion: As permieat in 90.15) amd (0) for flar-top racevars 890.78 Dead Ends, Deadendsof raccoaysshallbe cosca
(5) Ravage over 100 mm 4 ind Wide Bu Net over 200 mm 30074 Jancicn Bones Junction bone dal be bcd do the
@ in) Wide, Phitop raceways over 10 mm (4 ind but not que BA Junction boxes used with metal maecwayy shall be
mer 20 ms 8 ny de mil a minimum of 29 mem dI ED Coney e boe wed mt metal rcevays shall
pacing between racenas shall be covered with concrete 10 3 and sballne cecal he ”
pi Sto tn 5 mm (I Ind Maso pac ls ian $90.75 Test, Insts shal be elo and scaled to prevent
mn in) part all be concia With cere lo a pln th entrance of Gore. nets ih metal acs all
Sn ma im be metal and shall be ita comin wih fe cower
ree sr on ot acc re: Toor la bad shall
©) Trnct Type Rosas Flot its Comet, Teondwipe pe chanical cured to fn. eaccvay Inserti tt in be
lush raceways with cemanable covers shall be permiticd to raceways alter the lloor & laid shall be sewed into the race.
laid lt th the lt acs. Such app cena shall ret he lor lait bal be wed nto the ce
Be derignod ro dt coer plates pole adequate Sch lp and obs al be ale rm AE tati
cal protection and rigidity equivalent to junction box covers. ay, and tools shall be used that ace designed so 3 to prevent
{D) Otber Raceways Flash with Concarse, In office occupan the tool from entering the raceway and damaging conductors
cics, approved metal dattop raceways. If not over 100 mm hat maybe in place
Tn ln width ad be pared lo be lid a WU 30010 Commons 10 Cabinets and Wall Owe Co
conn ios sfc, profit ey ate Coed wh lan on i anale Sino ees and
Eley ae lien 1 mim Bln) kc eT ened io yo of ie
Sommer NEPA Foren a use co NEPA Fre fess fr No! ra tin con cus rs
Roeser


--- PAGINA SUCCESSIVA ---

—_ 0 oowvussm Cama TA Se
viag then apie, whee istalla {nacre Table 368) Wing Mele
with the respective artides. —
rr pry
[rs E
ARTICLE 892 Commanicathins cables Ri and R05
Cable Trays Elecuica neil tabing. EMT WHR
Pan E, General Fleabke abel conduit, FNC ur
$924 Scope. This artic covers cable ray stes, including Flenible metalic bing EMT EI
Seope Toi asic cover cable mp come lang SSAC OE re pi
lar slr smug. sem channel. ol mom and (LSI SA HES ia
tare: Liquidighi Heaible meal conduit, LENE 30
py
Fan. faralinion [S-— -
pe
390.10 One Pemined. Cable may dall be preted 10 be pop nd re dum cio mato
en Sed Fadi
Saune an cate CAO tm CMR natio mdocte
currents ashi lo a e
BF fl A ye Fe aR EH
TEA TU CR EINEN) Cab
tray nsiallatione shall not be limicd to ndusirial cstable, Bower and consul ira cable Type TO se
Fon We esposta fic cae of the tua, peda Erato he gn
Sonductors and Rdicd able shall be idento as being EST imked ims cable 7
Fanghi citano Cab mam ana tri cet gt CE, si
fg ta Cable as and Biani ava tv ji
3 Ning bite. The iin nic n The PIO) Rat TS atm SE HA
Han he ioe tent pedir RR hPa ca E
the conditions described in their rospocve arides and TBC CF
(51 nti Estabihmente. The vicng mehodein Tab: @) Single. and Maticonducr Media Yolage Gales
SIONI kb panino io be tod ima oct. Sigle and malucondozior ml oho Cable: call de
ae idee ee duo debe i ie apo oh abi Sagl sooo hall be Pasi och
ee aber a ere ohms of ance i SABRC)
alan” ag scoslon cur’ ba on el e) piamrione Clio) Lomo. Cable map in barr
In 89210(8)1) and (512) shall be pomnited fo be installed 0% CHE) cations shal contain an the cable pes and
in ladder, ventilated trough, solid bottom, or vereilated chan Can peemittod by other artides in the
relcable rays {D) Nonmetaltic Cable Tray: In addition to the uscs permited
oe a cable ral pbc
Jy — J
‘Singleconductor cables and single nsulated conduc hall 1° COT accatandinarcas equicing rok age enlation
Deposito 10 be meal im aconda mo LEN BIR) (©) Aifieti Lighing Coble Trap, In score whe rain
orgs ANO a so Seto: Cura a sy id
opi Sonos cables ar single Sond: rep lho ie ine cable a Tila deli
ors ull be 1/0 AMC Orlarger and shall B13 pe listed and Cable wed in serie creat Ina ate cale ap lo 5000 solo and
sunt on e urta los di le MAO VO ANT are poncio i doma ha a be pm
oh 70 AL ap coos Ger ana agi en AE coma a
mG are aura obec TE
allovable cng spacng for the ic calc way al be o ae CO Iaia addii i ara
(b} Wading cables shall comply with Artide 630, Part Iv eb Fo pt hing
(©) Sigle Conduction. SE e Spe Fioanng 392.12 Crs Nn Permine Cable tap quens shall not be
condizio Tl malora, ores oT ey bali anali Dot EE LT dare
Facce agri
Com RE rc vira ue NEDA Fre ast of sre Go se ris
ine


--- PAGINA SUCCESSIVA ---

ran ARTICLE 392 —CABLE Tas
390.18 Cable Toy Installation installed in the same cable tray shall comply sith cic of the
(A) Compieie System. Cable trays shall be insaled as a HONE
complete gate Field bonds or modificatione shall be so made (1) The cablosoporatingatavee 1000 sols acc Type MC.
that the ckerical continuity of the cable ay sem and (2) The cables operating at over 1000 sols are separated
support for the cables ie maintained. Cable tray ystems shall be from the cable operating at 1000 volts oc ess by a solid
Pm io dare” mechankaBy din gens Vac bari of a rie tal compat ve the cable tray
en cai tray us ox bene cable tear Fu SAP. (©) Comper in Parallel Where sigle ondctor cables
ment comprising cach phase, neutral, or grounded conductor of an
8 Completed Before Installation. Each run of cable may aliccnatingcutreni ChE ate Sonnac In parallel at pr.
abe corapietod before the ation, of cables ted in 810.100), the conductor shall be nelle in group
cositing of not os than one conducior per phase, neutral.
(© Covers. Inport: of cue hire sional protection ie ni Nol more Han one conc pe phase, neural
SQUIER, covers OF enchorurer providing ihe UE) PORE. paclcked soon duc to induttiva meattance,
tion hall be of a mate a that = compatible with he cable tray, Po
N single conductors shall be securely bound in Gicuit group
D) Through Parsons and Walls, Cable rays shall be pi. to preven scie move hi due 10 fault cartoni magnete
te 10 exteha anne hough partition and valle or venti foe unless single condor are Cable ot, Rata a
Elo pid raed gh pion and all gerente les angie oe
Sere the insallatione, complete with inmalica Cabler arc
inven at 5001 (D) Single Conductor. Where any of the sigle conductors
incall in ladder of Senda ough ab tras are 1/0
© Exposed and Ascessible Cable taps shall be cxposcd and irough 470 AWG, al single conduciort hall be metallo in a
accessible, except as permite by 892.1 PD). sigle yer. Conductor that are bound together to comprise
cat ci culi group shal be permed to be eal In Gunes
CF) adequate Access Sufieni space shall be provided and group shal be pe
Maintained abut abl (ra to pert adobe access for than a single yer
installing and mainialning ie ables $9222 Number of Conduaors or Cables
4G) Raceways, Cables, Boxes, and Conduit Bodies Supponied {A) Number of Multiconducior Cables, Rated 2000 Volis or
from Cable Try Syme. In Industrial facilities where cont Love in Cable Trae. The number of multiconductor cabo
tions of maintenance and supervision ensure that only qual- cated 2000 oh of kss, permitted in a single cable tray shall
fica persons sertice the installation and where the cable tray not exceed th vidoe of this section, The condurio
systems arc designed and installed to support the lead, such pizes shall apply to both aluminum and copper conductors.
Tat be Scenic io appart aa an Mime AMEE, 2 dota shir al coppe coco
Boxesand conduli bodies cover in A111. For Ficus Iccemi» vided scion of he cable tray
ting at th tray, eed cable tray cp or ae shall Be
She scene mon he acu 1 th cable ray gem (1) Ladder or Senile Trg Cable Taye Conan Any
Additional supporting and securing of the raceway shal be fn Mixture of Cables. Whee ladder or sentilated ough able
accordance with the appropriate racemay article. For maceways tps contain muliconductar power or lighting cables, or any
x cabiee running pataliel 10 and sachet to dhe bottoni Gr mitre of muliiconductor power, lighting, control, and sigret
ate my ate, renin and supporting Fale in able The mass nthe of cables hab conferi 10
‘accordance with the appropriate raceway or cable artide. BLEU (16a) through (3) (160).

For boxes and conduit bodicsatachod tte bio or side (a) Where all of the cable ac 1/0 AWG ox brger, the
of'a cable ay ester tenne and supporting shall be in sum of the diameter of all cables shall net coe he cable
ma vy tray wiki, and She cables shal be etalk in a Single Br

i Were the cable ampadiy e detemmincd acooiling to
<H) Marking, Cable trays containing conductors operating 497 KOGA) (1)(c), the cable tray width shall not be less than the
vce 60 so shall have a permanent, legible Ting noti sur of lho diameter of the cable anal the rum of the doped
Caring the wording “DARKE — NIT VOLTAGE = REEF spating witihe been he ab
AWAY" placed in a ceadily visible position on all cable trays, (b) Where all of the cables arc smaller than 1/0 AWG,
sil he pacing of warning notice not to goed 3m (10 0. th sum of the cromscetional acess Of all cables shal nck
Toc danger mckingis1 of (abe shall compl» we HOHE). tx the manor alonable cable i arca in Conn | of

ione Hie a rote as pte equipment), in nasil Toe 92 ZAN) fo te appropriate cable tra sith
opto the csi ppt pment ert TS PERI oe pra er,
Fatments rn. onditioni of vues and mprvision
ne ut nine and WU ame cable ay ith cables mals than V0 AMC. the sum of
cum that on gual fessor: mies the instaiaton, sob 1) the cossscctional arcas of all cables smaller than 4/0 AWG
em meng heb dl a oo ence Un arn, Ala, Ti arca ning
hs om he calculation In Cota 2 ef Table 892 ZEANI) for
39220 Cable and Conductor Installation the appropriate cable bay width The 1/0 AWG and bger

i cable: that be installed in a single layer, and no aber cables

(8) Multiconductor Cables Operating a 1000 Vl or Less. Soli be pacs on,
Multiconductor cables operating at 1900 volts or les shall be
permitodto be installo in in same tray (2) Ladder or Vented Trough Cable Trays Containing Mui
tondurior Cora andro Signal Cables Ooh. Where a ladder

©) Cables Opening at Over 1000 Von Cables operating at SORU Coal adorna Cables Ory Wi
over 1000 volts and those operating at 1000 volis cr less lated trough cable tray having a usabb inside depth of
0-0 NATIONAL ELEGIAICAL CODE ——

Copri NEPA For ext uve 150 NEPA Free Access attori Not dr ai 40% our GHG Gr Gn

Fr vreune Coa. Seed oarS 70 rear AUTRE ue Cora: CSTR


--- PAGINA SUCCESSIVA ---

ARTICLE 892 CABCETRAYS m2
Table 92.220A)(1) Allowabie Cable Fill Arca for Mahiconductor Cables in Ladder, Yeni Trough, or Sofid Boom Cable Trave
for Cables Bane 2000 Yoh or Less
Maina lovable Fil Acca for Mulicosd vos Clie
Sold Boro Cable Toa, SOERRANSY
Colusa Com Sapphesbie Comet
Caste wid | applicable for 52 220A) Coluno È Toc SER URONDI | Appiicabie toc 392 ZANE)
of Cable Tay Oa Apglicible for 392 Zinc) On uly Quy
wen] Lm a limo msn mopar | Law 20 | tam cana ese
40 | sen 35 | sew-esur  wi-iiese | Zoe sn | Zion iSa 4A
wooo | aw To [amigesut dese | sa 3a | sone asst
wn so | ooo 53 | comeisosa  asoriesh | ade 20 | amori 70-5
ao sso 0h | Gomeisosai  Ga-wese | aw se | sio esa) mst
wn i20 | so 150 | 20m iosa Giles | eb we | Teesesse 19-5
ror I | nom GosM Son 250 | owe las | aw @ise iis
dm so | sso ra ne | wow 5 ro a
wn mo | ow 55 | Gow-oesh 284. MT 250 | Use ws | Uto es sa wis
a 20 | wow 20 | ino] GOSAL 28 ALZI | lazio ge | ls 2on essa) mgs
1% mo | 22 So | zamocese  moiash | wae 23 | Ion cessa) AA
Mae | mow 20 | novo cosa) 42 1254) | dom swe | 2l300 ssa) 350 SA
he marmi Sora fl arco Coloni 230 Shall be cdeatea, For crampi. ie wim Ibe RIT sn For a TA ov cable
ite n Golan 2ahall be 400 mina GO ma lic by SA) fee te sm Boab fl, in square cher, for atri mae table Ita in Coli 2
Sl be Tutino (2 maliiplicd ba SA,
lhe tam Min Coli am 4 esl to the sum the diameter, in wo al cl 07 Zin Imc he, of al 4/0,M5C) ad bir
salt dot ie i he seme cale lh aber
150 rom in) or less cortains multiconduttor control and/or Table 392.2215) Allowable Cable Fil Area for
signal cables ony, the sum of the qcorsseational arcas of all Muiticonducior Cables Ventilated Channel Cable Tras for
cables at arm cross section shal not exceed 30 percentof the Cables Rated 2000 Vols ores
interior aessectional arca of the Gable om A depth af
150 mm (6 in.) shall be used to calculate the allowable interior ana Bovet Fa Arca Tor
crosacetional arca of any cable tray that ba a Usable inside stico tion Ca
depth of more than 160 mm (@ in.) dle PE
(3) Solid Bottom Cable Tram Containing Any Mixture of tosse wiih of Colum i More Than
Cable. Where solid boom cable raps contain multicondc- Cable Try GaeCae Oce Cable
tor power or lighting cable, or any miature of muliicondudior | ——— no Oeste CeCe
pov, lighting, contil, and signal cables, the maximum mn mn en &1 ea
umber of cables shall conform to 8922) (4) a) through FE) 5 Bw wm 1s
WIEN 100 mw 13 Ew 23
(a) Where allof the cablenare 1/0 AWG oc beger the 90 60070 MW ak
sum of the diameters of alt cables shall not exceed 30 peroni
dl the cable way Vth, and the cables shal be installed in a
Soares malas ae sable gar A depih of 180 mim hn) rl
(b) Where all of the cables are smaller than 1/0 AWG, fo urca io calculate he allomable interior erormaectional arca
the sum of the crosescctional accas of all cables shall not of are cable way that has a umble msl depth of more than
cxcoed the maximum albwable cable til arca in Colamn Bof ae Rm ins
Table #92 22GA)(1) for the appropriate cable ray wid i
(©) Where 1/0 AWG or larger cablesare nrtalled in the (5) Ventilated Channel Cable Trays Containing Muhiconduaor
same cable ray with cables small than 1/0 AWG the sum of Cables of Any Type, Where ventilatori chanel able tane
the crosvscctinal areas of al mbles smaller than 4/0 AWG conan makiconductor cables of any type, 92. ZXANC) (3)
shall not exceed the maximum. albwabk MM arca resulting and CA) Gb) shall apply
{tom the computation in Column 1 of Table 392 ZA) 1) or @) Where only one multiconductor cable is sald, the
the appropiate cable may width, Thc 1/0 AWG and hrger  crosesoctional atea shal not exceed the valie specifica Fa
cables shall be installed in a single ayer, and no other cables Column 1 of Table B20) 6)
shall be placed on them. ©) Where more than one multiondoctor cable ix
ina, the sum af the croreseetional arca of all cables shall
{s) Solid Bottom Cable Tray Contuining Muliconductor not exceed the value specifi In Calumn 2 al Table 392 220)
Control and/or Signal Cables Only. Where a solid botiom 5)
cable tray loving a utable Inside depih of 190 mm (@ ind oF
Lo conan cote corto and/or gal bln, (©) Sol Channel Cable Taye Contiing Mondor
the sum of the ose seaional arc of all cabies a ary crows Cables of Any Type. Where solid channel cable ays contain
rE ON HERA CODE 20-87
Copy NEPA or ent soe a NEPA Free Ades pron No! or si buio Sou ones ce gn
For tires contati ti SSE oACr “o (PF "AUT an ue COE ESAS


--- PAGINA SUCCESSIVA ---

sn ARTICLE 358 CABLE TRAYS
maiconductos cables of any type, BLZE) Ga) and (ANA) or over pris in a single cable tray shall not excecd the
Cb) shall apply equitenen ol Wissecion
@) Where ony one mulicondactos abl ssl ihe The sum of the diameter of singleconductor and mulicon
crossitcinai arca oF dhe able Shall nor Exod de value curt cab shall Rol eel ih Sable day vaio, and be
spociioain Column | of Table 892 22 CANA), “ble: shall be ko in a sing pt. Mete single conda
ho More than one mubimdusas cil e ge ales at EES et ac ana ges
ta, the sar of the cose arca of a cable Shall Shea groupe, tie sar foe Aare of The RET coma
ot xc he ah prio in Column 201 Table BTZZ23) or shall no xo the cal ay Kid. and thee Foup
© Shall be installo nang as arrangement
(8) Number of Single-Condurtor Cables Rated 2000 Volis or 39230 Securing and Sp poring.
or Conk, (A) Cable Traps. Cable rays shall be supported at intervals in
fi Secca meres of he section, The amg accordance with the insallation structions
Shall pot enced teams of Br sect, Toe Ang
conductors, or conductor arscmblics, shall be evenly disirib- {B) Cables and Conductors. Cables and conductors shall be
utcd across the cable tray The conductor sizes shal apply to sccured to and supported by the cable tray sem. in accordo
both aluminum and copper conductors. ance with the following, asapplicabbe:
(1) Ladder or Ventilated Trongh Cable Trays, Where laddecor (1) In other than oriconial rus, te cable shall be fatencd
Sila gh cable tgs contain ge onan cables Ceol orev i merabet of the cable or
he. msimum uraber Of singie condacior: shall CoN 5 @) Supporti hal be prom lo precnt stem an cables
Kenan teh DE cher the ict teas from cable tray ser
(a) Where ab ofthe sable arc 1000 hemil or larger, the) The stem shall provide fo the suppori of bk and
camo the Graton di all incite cables Sa not race VE metis in acenr dance lib te doro
Code cable ag wet and ihe cables chat be etalon spending rier Where cable rape support ind sil
a single lance Cruces that ace bouna together to code ondulati or mulicondueio: cable apd Where dhe
SUE group shall be ponte 0 be vale in oil: aco or CA: tables parc ori one able
than a sgt tray to asoiher, or roma cable tray 10 racevarti or from
Where a of dhe als from 210 emi rough ar o equiprnni where dhe smnduciori ae
900 bari he sum a tarmac rca o all ngi imate, the tame beeen be She as or
ondocior cab sial not seen ihe minor albmabl telveen te cable bay and the racnay(s) oe the equip.
cable N arca in Column | of Table 3922208) fo the ment shall not exceed LA ra 6 10, Tht conductors shall
Spprepiie Sable tor wih be scouea to tiv cable mp) at the Sane, and hey
COM bere 1000 kemil or larger ingle onuios cables shall be pete 0.3 gg ar by location, fort phase
ate natalie in the sare cable tray th Areca cables preity
mallce than 09 ker, th cm of the rs scctional arcani (1) Cable le: shall be ect and cutie for he application
ahi cables smaller than 1000 erat srl net caccca the mas Sn for securement and support
mum sonable il arca mihi from the Compatation gy Men Te
Clan 201 Table SETH 1) pan ae ry 298,1 Expenion Spe len, Expwion spice pier for
(d) Where any of the single conductor cables arc 17g Pr thermal expansion and contraction.
through 4/0 AMC, te sum of he diamators of all single $9246 Besbed Conduit ana Tubing A bon shall not be
conductor cables shall not caved the cable tray width. required whore cables or conductors are installed in bushed
. ; oR anti wag red for support or foi prtseton ret
2 Ventimed Chanel Cable Toys Where 80 mim (2 ind. ial damage of whet Conduttore or cables teanaltion to a
ted channel cable trays conizin singleconductor cables, the Facciay viring method from the able tray. Conductors shall
ù Be perimtter Bemis equipment in accordance nh #92 4A)
sum ol the amet of ak single conduciors shall nor ned PE ip
the inside width of the channel. or (8).
©) Number of Type MY and Type MC Cables 200 Sots or or mal icondariorcabier vai ei se
Over) in Cable Trays. The number of cables rated 2001 volts hall be permetta to enter enclosures where they ate termina.
{cd through nonflexibie bated cot bin tad for
“Table 392.006) Allowable Cable Fil Area for hele proicetion provided they ate ecard at he point of tran
Maticondartor Cabin Soi Chott Cable rape for Cables Sm fom tn cile tray and the one tbing is scale ai
fritter {he outer end gasped ean sor o ncn eins
fo mee re apn ugh dhe coo ab.
se vid or Gown [Golem Mo (8) Flanged Connections. Individual cond ar malicon-
Cable Tray One Cable Than One Cable ductor cables with entirely nonmetallic sheaths shall be permit.
To e oT mem Rd lo enter conus thrash penne soci wih
ome ew wom wl aan where te abi ay 6 ached to he
WT R013 ww BR flange ar ihe lange le mounted Aree lo ie oquipmenE
Bo 3 Bm 30 m1 Tateprmings abe made such fa the Cota are
WE 87 100 21 proteciod Fam abrasion ant the opening shall be sabe on
Wi wm 85 am wm
pe [Ep
Copp NEPA Foren use oo NEPA Free Access gt Not dr ai 40% our GHG Gr Gn
For vreune Coa. Seed oarS 70 BEST AUTRE ue SO CSTR


--- PAGINA SUCCESSIVA ---

AKL came MANS sorso
ble 39222810) Aloe Cable Fil Area or Single Condor Cables in Ladder, Veiled
ough, or Wire Mesh Cable Dap for Cabies nea S99 Volts or Lesa
aim sivatia rara sca
Cabin Laer elas Tosi, or Wie Me Cable Treo
Coma i Como
Appiicable For PRTG) Applicable for SBLZA BALE)
ont win of Cable Troy "oar oa
Tw: 100 20 mo. assiro mais
wn i 30 Bo Eos, Bos
Gn : 400 &5 ch Si SO
0 : Simo So dime moni
E 3 fre 35 ri ver RR (AE
an J FE hr
no 16 0 RR A SO
Bo Wao mh leo (ash Wa0150
so w Wwe Be MODO CNS magian
o a 16300 260 hh
Li % mo00 ve NASO
30 = Bio 360 maaan mo-uise
ee eT ee aaa,
ot ib avs le In Coan Bab 90 0 bot SO ac
alonabe ne ohn ande tab mt 3h £1 anti li
ww
he ct Stan 2d 0 fe cc, of dl cables 07s? din hs 8
Kan oe oo He on rao dC
mere to prevent debris trom ence he enous though.) The minimum cro atonal aca ol cable ag confor
fests ta Inc coquisement in Table EE
tts Note: Que mala sl poi os fom 9) Ly econ ad Tanga og and dsl
primis debian te hoon marked to how he aossaoctional acca of metal chan
querele abercoy Rel table tan, OF cable ys di ore piece Cont,
50 the total coms econ atea bos side rale tor
$9256 Cable Spice and Type MV Cable Joinis, Cable splice Rae o laugh cable mare
and Type MV Gabi Joins mae and insulare by approsed (i) Cable way recone, Ming, and connected acces are
Toho tal be pected 10 be cath wim a cable a. bond accordate wih 230.91 using bolted mechan
Porites ate bes. Splices and Type MY cable join ani conero: ot bonding hamper: S208 and installed in
Each be pret 10 project hove he die ale heck no Scones sati 210 407
subject to physical damage. (€) Transitions. Where metal cable tray stems are mecha
39260 Grounding snd Bonding. Coy smi, so pom in BE ICY: 3 hong
(A) Metal Cable Tre Stat cable tras shall be pce 1 sacd in accordance wth 290 102 hal cone the eve
be used as equipment growing conductors where continuous sections of the cable bay pr the cable tray and the mwa or
aman ap apron Swe ar quae persone CIP Boring sali be in accordance wh 25058,
Kove the alle cable tay sistema and the cable way 39280 Ampaci of Conductors
complice ih ae scion. Metal cable mags tht apport i ’ i
oe condatior: hall be prode enon condicio: A) Ampaciy of Cable, Reed 2000 Vols or Less, în Cable
enclosures in accordance with 230.96 and Part IV of Artick Trays.
50, Sica cable rav conning only non power MULES al Koc Sce LOLA) fr odor epeire
rep A approved connoetione Ve vota mia pmi
Pr the iecol banding umpc. 1) Muhiconducior Cables The ampacity of muliconductor
al Kone: Expl oC rs ids ables nomaalis cd 2000 oho es, ald according 10
nomuandacihe opt Ther abies and hos 2 and Gl 3 the requirements at 392 2A) shall be = giver in Table 310.18
femme] sRnaing and premere si. and Table 810 48, subject to 89280), (AME)
®) Sweet ar Alumioum Cable To Syme. stechoraluminera (IE, and 10 MEAN)
cable yy shall pc 10 De Ur dr ip) The allure actos of $1011) shal apply
ba ie loci soem ont milicondurioe Fabhs ith mero than (hee Euan
od Eoin condor men soe call Amica she
0) “Toc cable my soetions ana igs ce donut as an ect DE S220 corlciors he cable and not io
equipment groundingeondurior
Sn NL LECT 10.2
Conon NEPA Fore use use or NEPA Free centr No: br rst buon cou cao ar ning
Ei eh dee er rp fat)


--- PAGINA SUCCESSIVA ---

me Tica —CABLETRAYS

‘Table 92605) Mea Arca Recprements for Cae Ts €) Were single conduciors ate nnallca in a single

Gad ua Equipmen Orounding Conductor have in uncoscred sable gs. wih a maintained space of ou
Ris than on cable dla mete hove ind dual Contato

mim Fox meer RW SSR e Apa ol 1/0 AR and large cab sali no nfo

Coniston Yet tc ampacticr in Tal 310.1 ane Fob 19.

Seri, or Circuit Besse. SteelCable  Alaminura Cable Exception 10 (0: For soled bottom rable tras, the ampariy of single
Pescina Belo Apre Tip "his “ng ck abo bop mr Pr I e
Protection of Amy Cable Circuit ) Where single conducirs arc installed in a triangular

—fadeCouTuyomen wm’ int esl in! or square configuration in uncorcrod able tray, with a maine
mM Tom mr om sin lee Smee ol oi Em lan 29 timer one como
sn U2 om Da ot dame CAS UD) of he beget condueo: conned
EA Tio UB 9 020 thine coniguratlon and adaccni conductor congas
id BRED a he anpati Si 1/0 a Yager cis
Fo Fis UB BHR 04 sali cad ie amacitsaf ran of eos alsa
oca STS SK 060 conduone rated © through 2000 voli supported on a messer
200 = = eid Ln ger in accordance with 810.15.
pa = Z % la

E = = BE thm Nite Ser hes

Fe RAGA CAI (8) Combinalioni of Mationdurior and Sng Contact
or bo area diet i pamela be Ma of, e ra a ae a
tm audi tn i omette umane Contato and se oder ae. ic ampaclilerihal be
neat mul me tensioning as o O O a cable, oe ampaciic ball be
ordinato ani rame tank met pete ar il ie Re rid
aril mite mela comp oes E18 for Sree

Jr long cortine apPIF ton cable la 8

pescentage of the allovabl® tc of the rp wu.

(2 Where cable ra, ate contol coved or more Rd in dance wih SOLER) ana the ee
than 1A m (6 ft) wih solid unventilated covers, not vcr comluaor able Till area ar percentage of the wal
95 peretni af the apie of Table 81036 an Table B10 Sl atca tor tp sintered
Shall be perio foi multiconat ueto: ab 23208 rl mot more an 100 pce,

Pots monocot aie are tated ina single) airondscor ee ae Indi Sercting to
Lacs hance as in aan spadng of no less MILA), ad snglecondocior cables are ela
ian one cable diame re beeen cable, angi sal noi reg to EE and 92
She TTP SIC TE ty ppc of Type MY and Type MC Cab CO Vatu cr
tor matcd through 2000 volts in fe air in accordance win Over in Cable Trays. The ampacity of cables, raed 2001 wos
Rabid Torino et mld abode LEC) al oi

me cqoc mens of en

Informational Note Ser Tufo naative Anns 6. Table 8243). Anfo national Note: See L104 for conductor iecuiperatare liti
® Sug Contr Cables. The ampass of tingle io ot iain onion
Dimon, CUTE BERET ey ese

amon aie af SIVRC) sali noi apply do ine Moticondacior Cable 2101 9 The ampacs
ampacity of cables in cable tram. The ampacity of single of multiconductor ables i Ee ae
mpaciy of able In cable ry, The mpc of SDF © and Tabi $0 60610). sabes foo following:
pte, quatruplexc aed mo oan, ovina eg (0) Whece cable ras are cotnuously merca fo more
0h okt of Los, ah cots es SERA rough fetes espa baie

ea an 5 percent of th apa oF Tab: 3134)

here milled according to the requirement af a Tab BIS POCC10) sali be pee fo malicore

2252007 tampa Dr #00 herd and ar Trg pode

Sir Se ary Co rl EL hr: mbt cables cna n a angle

Sa ree of the apace in Tank 10.7 ana Ta 510.19 vera aero a, vil apa ac

Wikre cable tram ace continuously covered for more. than not lo han one Gable diameter between aibies, ine

VI i told sneered ces he ampaciier for ripen, sali not ced the slovab ames DE

Saver age cabs shall not eee pent of the proving

bares ThE 3 01a Tab 510 49.

Fo Where installed according to the requirements of @ E Conductor Cables 2001 olts or Over), The ampac,

li a fo of Grae cas, or gie conduciore ped
0 tampa for 1/0 AWC ooh 500 rt 19 Single conducior cables oc single conductors abba
ingke-conductor cables in uncorered cable traps shall nee Bother placa, quadrupl Plt
exered 63 petcent of the ampacities in Table 810.17 and Table ng:

Sho. Wise cable ims ate commonly vero fo more (0) The ampactics oc 1/0 AWG and beger singloconducior

an LAT (810 wi md anrendbicd coo he pare rerouting amy]
op Tv a yes percent of the ampacitics In Table 5060) ard
perce of th aces In Table 10.17 are Table 810.15. Tale Sin BoC Where dhe cable es ar cover od
Copri EPA Free ce NEPA Free Access att No: or rat 1 Sou cao xs
Far Paura Ey ees,


--- PAGINA SUCCESSIVA ---

ARTICLE 998 — LOW VOLTAGE SUSPENDED CEILING POWER DISTRIBUTION SYSTEMS mi
merc than 1A m (60) wih sold unseniated overs he (B) Amembiy of Lined Part. A bw.sotage susponded celling
ampacitics for 1/0 ARG: and larger singiozonduao panes distribution sem semble from he following parts
Sabie shal not cxeccd 70 perc a the ampaciticr in Kt according the appropriate function, shal he pormi
Table #15 60(C3C5) and Tabs BID AMC). ok 8 10 the apprere a

2) Whee singlecondurior cables are nel In a single Listed lowioliage uilimion equipment
nente ani a maman a lem ee ig
not less than one cable dametce between individual (3) Listed or identifica fitings, including connociore and
conduators, the ampadiy of 1/8 AWG. and larger cables od or ent ed tinge |
Shall noi exc he ampaciice In Table BIANCA) gy Tob Nbc th 722 79,
and Table 313800) (1). conductors in raccwass, or other Bixcd wiring methods for
8) Where single conductors acc installed in a triangubr or pisa i
square configuration In uncovered Gable ray viti a ]
iain {ice alt space of noi less than 2.13 limes ine
Sama {21 x ODI of the begesi condocior barf, Instalizion
contained within the configuration and adjacent condue- PS EE E
ir configutatione oC cable», the ampacity of 1/0 AWG 398.10 ses Permined, Lowsoliage suspendod cling power
and args cables hall not exceca e ampacties in Table distribution sieme shall be permanently Connected and chal
BIANCA and Table 315 GHC) 2) be permiticdas follows
@ For ao utlimiion equipment capable of operation at a
. . maximum of 30 salta ne (121 voll peak) of 0 solts de
Paritti. Consiraction Specificatione (1A voli peak for de interrupted ata rai of 1 11 to
392400 Consinacion 200 12) and limited to Clas 2 pouce keeck in Chapier 5
Table 114) and Table 1148) for lighting, contro. and
(A) Suengih and Rigid. Cable tras shall have suitable dignaling circus
reni and Tg to provide adequate support for all (2 n indosrdiviocatione
contained wiring. {#) For rsidential, commercial, and industrial installations.
® Smooth Edge Cable rs shall not have shacp cr, (het spaces ufo enrol alt in accordance
jibe aileron lh WBE seal oqipreni having a ml
ctsof the wiring. Shall be listed for use within an at-handling space and
(€) Corrosion Protecion. Cable rag sstems shall be coro. Mali hare. adeguate fccuonisare and oveamoleo
Son resistant I made of oreo material, ine mptem shall be producing character blicy and asociiod ming material
Protected from corrosion as required by 00 Ratable oc the ambient temperature.
(Di Side Rails, Cable trae shall ave side ral oc equivalent lisonadonal Note: See ANSI/LL 2068.2018, Pi To fa Hat
Tutu members fa Vaie Salo oo ren tt and Tie Mini
Tn tn Henig. Spar for one mela of hE
© Firings. Cable trac shall include Bing or otic sutable Shenton aa viale prode NE ham
Beans or changesin hee ion and ckvaion of runs ToL eine i wi a metab ens
© Nonmetallic Cable Trap. Nonmetalli cable toys shall bc 338.82 Uses Nor Perminect. suspended cellngpowce disiribu.
made of Tar eta dant mater al tion syst shall not be installed In the folio hg
(1) Indampornetlocations
€] Wire bei lo corse fumes or sapori, such as nor.
age battery toa
ts) Were suljectto phy seal damage
ICLE 0 Inconcealca locations
ARTI 398 iki 3) In hamrdous (claw ficd) locations
Low-Voltage Suspended Ceiling Power ©) As part of a lire-rated lloor.ceding ar rootceiling asce
Distribution Systems yanks spocticalio sd a parse the seca
3) For lighting in goncrsl or ica patient cate arcs
Pan È General 395.4 Instaliuion.
98.1 Scope. This article covers the installation of kow-voltage (3) General Requirements. Support cing shall be insalled
susp “ceili wer distribution systems. in a neat and workmanlice manner. Conductor
pended cclling pos installed exposcd on the surface of ecilings and sidewal shall
3986 Listing Requremenia Susponded cling power diari be supported be ine building sir ucture in such a manner thal
Baton. atene and amociatca Miinge shall be Tod as in the cae lt nf damaged by normal building we. Sach cables
89BAA) or (8), hall be supporto by rape, saples, hangers cable ties linea
and identica for euros and upper Ge Simile fringe
(4) Line Syme. Lovcsoltage spendo lng diribution Signed and led o de roi to datate ts cable
cms operating at 3 lac or Fe o 60 Volla de or les
Sali be Tae a a complete scm, uit the utiization oui, Itt! Note Sopa selling bara ec grid
TE ME e Paol ine a AREA thaion was shod be mula fa qualit rors lr
men Gaia ntane ai atanal Bob Aerie
sesto NON, BCT CODE ez
Copy NEPA Fore use ue or NEPA Free Access stn Not or as Buon aos gian ar pnt
Far ours ono user 18rd om APS use coma RE


--- PAGINA SUCCESSIVA ---

rm ARTICLE 95 LOWNOLTAGE SUSPENDED CEILING POWER DISTRIBUTION SYSTEMS

(B) trauimed Conductor. Exped insulated socandary $98.45 Overcurrem and Reverse Polarity (Bockfeed) Prove:

circuit conductors shal be fee, of the ype, and installed as ton.

dererbod a olin: (A) Overcuerem Protection. The lisicd Class 2 power supply

(1) Class2 cable supplied bra ted Class 2 pone sousceand or iranstonner primary shall be protected af not greater tai
installed in accordance with Fart of Acicle 722 and 20 amperes
Farts Cand fof Actele 725

@ Wiring methods described in Chapters (5) Imerconneaion of Power Sources. Listed Clase 2 sources

o shall mt have the output connections paralicied or oe rise

35.21 Disconnecting Means. intecconnectod unless ed for such inte concern

(A) Location A disconnecting means tor the Class? supp} 10) Reverse Polarity (Backfeed) Protection of Direct Carre

the power grid em ful be bastod so as 10 be accessi and Symi. A suspended colma lovsotage power distribution

within sight of thr Class powcr occ for icing or mante sem shall be per mated to have reverse polarity (backieed)
nace ol the grid stem. protcetionat de circuit: by one ai the lallowiig meant

(5) Multiwire Branch Circuits. Where connected 10 a multi. (1) It the pow supply i provided as part al the sistem, the

ice branch cirart, the disconneeting means shall simultane nr supply is provided wit reverse polarity (hackiced)

ly disconnect all the supply conduzione, eng the Brocetion i P”

rounded condor 2) i the power suppl is not provided as part ol the system,

i i severso polaris oF backtead protection can be provided

39830 Securingand Supporting. = part Di the gua mil basa of a 3 part of the pm

(A) Anached 10 Buikling Sucre. A suspended ceiling love ecdconnecor

soltage power ditsbuton smo shall be secured to the 35555 Spicer. A bisbar spice shall be proved wih insula.

mong sutace of the bulding stature be hanging tes, i and mechanical protein equivale to that of he grid

severa, 0 bole in accordance wip the installation and opera: Conroe

lion instructions, Mounting hardware, such as scceisor bol,

shall be cither package wih the suspended cciling how vol 398.57 Connections. Connections in busbar grid cal, cables,

protege titel aesielic pv lier mie De made mit eet ibe

ie shall specity he typos of mounting tasteners to be wed. be acceible alter iitallation, Where made in a yall connee-
ons shal be installed in an enclosute in accordance with Pars

(B) Anachmem of Power Grid Rails, The individual powce an cocker

oid rale thal be mechanical sccuced to the overall fey 123 LL ot Article Sta, as applicable

grid amc. 338,60 Equipmem Grounding Conductor. The supply side of

the Clas 2 pom source shall be connected to an equipment

394.40 Connecrors and Enclonues. rounding Conductor in accordance wih the appbeable

(A) Connectors, Connections to busbar grid rails, cables, ad requirements in Part IV of Artech 20.

condueore shall be made wich ted intularing Accs amd 598.61 Grounding of Load Side of Class 2 Power Source,

these connections shall be acessible aller installation A Couey pg GE deci for pende cole eo

ic connection shall he amd mechanical; segue before Cir load se sires lof pended calling bo moltage
cing solderca. Other meat of teauring lead, sich aspuseon hog

reoninals and padeype connectors, shall provide a secure

mechankal connection, The following conaecnrs shall be

Perio oo used as connoctionor iniareannettion devico pay BL. Constmacion Specifionione

0) Load concoct rd or pores rom 1 Miur 395.100 Sims and pes of Conductor.

(A pendani connocto shall be peed to suspend lw (A) Lod Side Olan Condurtor Sx. Cpsinicatrng
vobage luminaices oc utiliition equipment below the conducors lor load side utilita Bon equipment shall be copper
grid il and a rn fe he bisi to the ana salt bed AMG minima
lization equipment

9) A power led connector shall be permiticd to connect 2acoprion: Conductor of sie small than 18 AWG but not small
(he wet supply directly 16.3 pote distribunon cable 1h 24 ATG. all br pomtnd to be vied for Case 2 cimatto, Wine
and lo the usar wo, teso contunors hal de sae wing a Cape 3 ting

(9 Rabtoral comeatore shall be permite to iniccconnect Method, shal br dial mdse, sk wt br salici to movement of
bibare romane ling i rat to another grid mil stu, an sal comp a e gat, nes Tl

orm Nove: Ser UL $10. Standard for Evie Quit

Comms Mrents Pr quielamneci crm Sex (B) Power Feed Bos Rail Condurior See, The power cod bus

CER aNG8 Smart for We Como. for meshes she cai shall be 16 AWG minimum or cquisalent. Far a hushar with

ingle. 3 citeular cross scion, the damerer shall be 129 mm
© Enciorare where made in a sal, connections shall bc 40031 in) minimum, and, tor othic than dicular busbar, the
installed in an encloses dn accordance with Paris 1. {Land Qi 3662 shall be 182 me (0.00210) minimi.

of Article 514,

oz NATAL ELEGIRKAL CODE rE

Copri NEPA or arse a NEPA Free Access pron No! or GB 10% Sou cnc er gn
For tires Gort: SSE oncr “o (oro UT an 5 use COTE ESAS


--- PAGINA SUCCESSIVA ---

ARTICLE 905 OUTDOOR OVER (AD CONDUCTORS OVER 1000 VOLT 0
J place. Running board and
ARTICLE 394 feito pi frag pelo bathe
Conceslon Et Wi Fitalca song ote Fo t,o aes
oealed Knob and Tube Wiring ®) Notaccessible by airway or Permanem Ladder, Con
oka lean sides al or Through ve ol
Pant. Ceneri eo. mo eaieri
3941 Scope, This aricle cose Sd ———
Construction spociicatione el concealod kn andthe vg. and ef spe ly mt Sy rat pment der
rd ev dom at all pts in rn Sn 3 Fh
rt ld oh ps i a
Pant, Insalinion temp.
39410 Cres Perpines Corea fon ate og sali 3940 Securiog and Supporing.
be petit to be msaked in the hollow spaces of wall and i a he igh a
ceilings, or i unfinished attics and roof spaces as provided by (A) Supporting, Conductor cigidiy supported on
collgs oc in finch pric sort Ropes tiliou shall
3 or ns any ve res. ppc mes
(1 Foreuensionrolesising aallatione pects
@ Elsewbere by special permission (1) Within 150 mm (6 in.) of cach side of cach tap o splice,
39412 Usca Nos Perminea Conceal Knobandiube eg na
toes be used foto @ Altueral notescerding LAM (0
(1) Commercial garages Where it & impracticable to provide supports, conductors
Fl cael wT EAT A Mn rs
(8) Motion picture studios cations, provided cach conductor & individually endosed in
(1) Iazardous (classified) locations flexible nonmetallic tubing that & in continuous lengths
© tolo spaces ol al cogs, and nics whore such {oan benmeale big hat en contin egies
space ale malate by ote SoBe on lamellare bo
Eg om ome oe os
J —
$51.01 Toroughor Burt 10 Framing Members, Concorso Seon bees bo oncom o
Sali comply wh BORAT wh pain through bok ts
tural members. Where passing trmug wood rom members in
plastered partitione. conduciors shal be protected by noncom: 394.42 Devices. Switches shall comply with 1011 and
bustible, nonabsorbent, nsulating tubes extending not less 1013008)
hang men ind bere frees feta Sout Spore ana Tap. shes shall be dct unioni
£5415 Gearaneze occ rhe oft i lat le
er
(A) Groen. dearance of no lese tha 75 ram 5 ind shall
ane ete Conductor and a cioarance al ot lee
Mando nn (ini ewe The coma, ad dhe aste Pari Hi Comicon Specifenions
he pe
pas 394,104 Conductors. Conductors shal be of a type identified
3 Limina Condurre Spe, re pure 10 id 10 ED
en Branca ahs po san
Fonti ote and etc poms he. wt condizione
jroo dfrbigreyo
oars eh ne Lo por ana The ok
reat point
“© Grumo fom. Ping. Export Cor, and So ARTICLE 395
Fb AI gd Act hr i Outdoor Overhead Conductors over
tom aio exporc oir. png, and ro forth 1000 Volts
39435 tn Awemite Asien Conduciore in infinisbed ais
and root spaces shall camply with 33:23(A) or (8). $95.0 Scope. This article corners the wee and installation for
aio oie: Ser SILKANS) for cupertino somoton ore sl rl
ton nthe. 395.10 Uses Permined. Outdoor ovcchead conductors over
(1 Accessibie by Stuirvay or Permane Lader, Conduciors 1900 ol orl le. pene only or avere ed
Sali a along Me side ol oh bocca Bh ener 1000 Valla eh oot
Tt pine, sula, ar es nce tun oh Bro none)
Cog es and in sui on rots mgm () Qudmminlimar eee
ok a ZI mr Sor die done ar lione PES Sa bt
protected by sleianial Fining boards exienAng not lcs Unformational Nose: Se IEEE C2, Nord Ere Safe Coe
fina nm ns on ch Se ort conduzione King oo ANSEARER SoS Roem Bt Ja Be
[EE ECM CODE ors
Copri EPA Free ce NEPA Free Aes dat Na! or rat into Sou cao xs
Far Paura a ET a i ees


--- PAGINA SUCCESSIVA ---

ssaa AT 6 MESSENGERSUNONTED Na
J,
TE 410 tren Perm.
asso Sop. ca) atte en The ce gs Table 10 sl e
“ 10 Gk De Th cb os RT log dele
{A) Conduors Documentation of the engineered design by fie conditions described in the artile or section referenord
te i ete fo
Joint pio] rote pend pry bn
Eh ee foe ah bn MY get saben Indl cores
Eo Bi, Eh, rt eo
lcs Sa rs of eran ad appr er
a Applied voliage supported wing, the following shall be permitted:
Fin en upper sua Am at soto ps dimen oe 1.401
@ Tpewsmue Table 310.462) Pe
@ Treg © oe
(© Surge protection Where exposed to weather, conductors shall be sted for use
rare oo, Pi motion e De he en
nthe te Lede od
PA
of ced de bra Keppel (© Hesiod Lowions owners
poet engod primarily in the design of ach yee and the cans where the contained cables and messengecsupporcd
installation of cach support siruetute shall be available upon vere the contained cables and messenger suppor
request of the authori, having jurisdiction and shall include "fig are specifically permitted by other artides in this
Sep le 1815 Orca NorP ein srengeppac weigh
pi et Se et er o
8 PAT arene ings i
(8) Weightof al supported conductor and equipment 396.30 Messenge:
) Weighioi al ups ontio Wn pp Toe Mmosenger shal be ppc al etc
Kay ing te sto path aa Spm Tin nes el x ppc mi
© a Speen en De ars on nt mn be
NE pt Ti, maria all be prone icon
© ft sp he
Hoe ee
(5) Nena Coco Wht de reser È md ar a
3 Hg se and teca) CE Ne Cot, Yi Jr me md
hace 225.1, 250. 1A), 250.1840817), and 250. I 7(8).
DE —— ooo i
rated for all of the folowing: {© Equipment Grounding Co r Where the mesenger
(6 Een, rng So Pe
Abergele Lan nen i md Lt
Fildes RTT). 1
fer
fr SES Bd bers Ta SION Cte pe
_ CableTwge Seconda
ARTICLE 3% sheathed cable
MessengerSupported Wiring vane cube
a Seo. Tor rc coves the, sain, and OE iumevorsmito
Pee TR rsuppeeted wiring: hind. nf poseercableo that


--- PAGINA SUCCESSIVA ---

ARTICLE 398 OPEN WIRING ON INSULATORS 9830
$96.56 Conductor Spikes and Tape. Conductor splice and (9) Boxing made in cordance with SITS) or (C02)
tape made and insulatcd by approved method shall be peck: and funehod with a cover kept at least 29 mmm {1 10)
todi messenger pact Ei may from the condueiore within, Where proteahg veti

e al onductori on side wall, ta boxing shall be cht at
39660 Grounding. The messenger shall be grounded as the top and the holo through which the conduciore past
coquiced by 85 Ata nd 250,88 for ancl grounding. the pa be
(0 Rigid metal conduk (RV), intermediate metal conduit
(IMC), rigid posing chloride conduat (FC), enforced
thermosetting cos conduit (KTH). or clerical metak
Ne bing ENT) When install in metal plow, the
ARTICLE 398 contac shall be Sra comin gies d
‘Open Wiring on Insulators PP ni
390.17 Through or Parallel 10 Framing Members. Open
conductors shall be separated from contati wth valle, floor,

Pan È General wood cross members, o patton through which they pass by

bes a bashing of oncombustble, mnabsocbent van

390.1 Scope. The atk covers the ue, iutallation, AW cil Where the baring 1 hori han th hole, a valet

constriction specications of open wiring on insulators. oof sce of monet he material shall be seed the

Foe and an insulating bushing *lipped ino the deve at cach
. end in such a manne as to hecp the conduciorsabiolutel out

Pan. nstalizion of contact with the dees. Each conductor shall be cared

390.10 Onn Perminea Opn viring on lon shall be (OUR pace uber cre

pretty for whustci oc agrilliaral abbr on ring Nose Ser $10 1H ANS) for cera hn

systemsof HOT sols, nominal, or less, as follows en: Ser HOMME © i

4) Indoori or autori 39.19 Ciearances. Open conductors shal be separated at

(® Invetordoy locations

least 60 mm (2 n.) From metal mean piping, or other

(3) Where subject to corrosivo vapore oi material and from any export HEA poet oe

(9 Far server Giang conducior, oc shall be separated there om by a

396.12 Uses Not Perminied. Open wiring on iisulatore shall Conn: and fiale foca noncondacto in addition to the

Vote i whee ema by te ig siete. ulation of the conch. Wades any insula ting ube 5 ec

d " lt shall be sccutod at the crc. Where practicable, conductore

39.15 Exposed Work. shall past over rather than under ans piping subject to leakage

(A) Dry Locations, In dry locations, where not exposed to OF actumualations of moistuce

physical damage, Conductors shall be permiticd 10 be spa 398.98 In Accessible Antica Conducione in unfinished anice

Cate endosed in exile nonmetalle Lining. The bing stalli at roof spacca shall compia math SO823 TA) or (8),

be in continous lengths not exceeding 49 im (18 FO and

scared to the sudato by sape at intervals mot exceeding (8) Accessible by Stirvay or Permanemi Ladder, Conductor

amento i shall de ake along hc side of of rough bored hole in

for joie, suk, ar cafe, Where cun through bored hole,

(B) Emering Spaces Subject 10 Damporesa, Wess or Corro. condizioni in the joss and in sd of Fakes to a height of

sive Vapore, Conduciori emering or Kaving locations subject notes than 21m O É) above the fior or oat ets ak be

to dampness. nethess, oc coos vapors shall ave dip loops protoeiod by substantial caring boards cxiending not less
form on them and shall then past pian an ward from than 25 mm (I ind on ach side of the conducions Running
the outside of the buiktig, or rom the damp. wet, a corro boards shall be scauce fastencd in place. Running boa re and
sve location, through noncombustible, nonabrer beni ineitlat: guard stripes shall noi be tequiod for conduciore installed
ing ter. Sig the icc of i, sue, or altere

fool Note Sec 21052 for nil sors net: (B) Non Accesibleby Suiruay or Permanem Ladder, Coc:

ing ings ov ber net tors shall be insaled along the sides of a heowgh bored hole
©) Exposed 10 Physical Damage. Conduciori win 2.1 min hoc fois, sts, oc fer.

(7 tt tro the Non fall be eonsiderod I —————

damage. Where open conductors cross calling joists and all and iof pare: that a mo ssl fy sav procaine

ds ad are cxposcd to physical damage, they shall be PROS and law Aimdnom at alt points ns than 900 mm 3 DU, tte ting
ted by one of the following rch ht be per mint fob uso on 1h sign of aos os Jig

(1) Gomme shall not be less than 22 10 veal te of.
in thickntes and at least at high as the insulari i i
supports, pacod oncach ic of and che to the wiring, 39630 Secueing and Supporting,

(A substantlal ning board at least 15 mira (in nick (A) Conductor Sims Smaller Than 8 AWG. Conductore
in hack of the condor with side protections. Rinnisg smaller than AAW shall be cigs supported on noncombusti
boards shal extend at least 25 mm (1 in) outside the ble, nonabrorbent intulating materia and shall no: contact
mo bu more tan Fn € ind, and tlc ang ole eci Supports hab be inate as folks
protccing des shall be at las 51 mmm (2 in) igh and ga
Seles 23 mm {1 in), nomina, in thickness (1) Wihin 150 mm (6 in) from a ap or splice

Debio NAN ELECTRICAL CODE ro

Copri NEPA or ent soe a NEPA Free Ades pron No! for GB 10% gone ones er gn
For tires contati ti SSE oACr “o (PF "AUT an ue COE ESAS


--- PAGINA SUCCESSIVA ---

39830 ARTICLE 398 OPEN WIRING ON INSULATORS
(2) Within $10 mm (I in) of a deadend connection to a (D) Mounting of Conductor Supports. Where rail are wed 10
lampholdcr or receptacle mount kobe, they shall not be sale than tenpenng. Where
9 At incriak not exceeding 14 m (4% 1) and at closer zens are wd 1 mount knob, or where nails ar serena are
inwcevale sulicient to provide adeguate support where Usd ko mount cca, the shall be of a length EN 10
Tiel to be distuched penetrate the wood ta a depth coual to at least oneal the
Fight of the kb and the full thickness of the cat. Cashion
(B) Conductor Siam 8 AWG and Larger. Supports for conduc: Soler eli be tec ale allo
ton ANG Or larger incall across open space shal be Seri shall be eh ial
preted up to 15 m (15 ft) apart # noncombuistible, nonab. (E) Tie Wires Conductors # AW or brger and supported on
sorbent hsulating spacers ar wed at beast every 1.4 m (84 ft) solid knobs sl be sccureb Bed thereto by te wires haring an
to maintain at least 6 ram (24 in) beeen conduciers. {Nstlationcquisalent to tha of the conductor
Where not fey to be disturbed in buikings of mill 390,42 Devices, Suracetype snap svitches sull be moumied
consti, AMC and larger conductors shall be permited in accordance with #04 INCA), and boxes shall not be required
to be Tun across open spaces if supported ire cach wood thee pe switches shall be inated in accordance wih 114.1
cross member on approved lates maining 180 mm
878) between conducts
Part HI Construction Specifications
(©) Industrial Establishmenia In industrial establishment
nb, where conditions of maintenance and supervizion ensure 398,104 Conductors. Conductors shall be of a ype identica
that only qualifica persons scevice the system, conductors of in Table SIA 401).
sizes 250 kei and heger shall be permed to be run acrost
open spaces where supported at iniervalt up to 97 m (30 1)
apart.
wn NATONAL ELEGTRIAL CODE eran
Copy NEPA or ent sue a NEPA Free Access por No! or ai tion Sou ones er gn
Eo canes coreg wt dijetpaerg 0 Ea: ATC deo use COR egibiripa ore
