ARTICLE 90 INTRODUCTION se2
Neale sigmling and communications conducts, equipment, and
catevayx and apical fer cables for the Following:
National Electrical Code (1) Public and private premises, including buildings, sree
ce, mobile homes, receational eile, and loth
mas Eaiioo bung:

Vac! Ts, parking lors, cambiale, and industrial sb

IMPORTANT NOTE: Tis NFPA document is mode available for one

ot io important mis nd kt tamer, Te wey ©) Waltons of conducts and capt tht connect

and diclapers appear in ali pulicaioni conning tisi document bo the suppl cherie

rd dlp appr ol publicazione coming te dose SEY ansa By dhe cate uni, such a ollie

Diizimari Canoaming NFPA Standards Thy con ato be ind buikdingi, sarchouscs, garage, machine shop, and

a nn cectcatinl buildings, that ate hot an miegral Part of a
gencrating plant, bation, o contol coer

1 bali supplsing shore powet 10 ships and water

UPDATES ALERTS, AND FUTURE EDETIONS: New lions.
ATOATES ALERTS. [i EDUTIONS Neo oem of £m aac Tog Roos 9
NPA Sondardo are mcm on eid iin oto TZ (gy ERSTE red to expo lorie pone from seticks
ee ot ehh mee oo to promises iting or for bidiccetional current flow
oe Imerim Amendment (Ts). An cial NEPA Sundar at amp (D) Instaliatione Noi Covered. This Ga docs not cover the
point intime const of the current edition of the document, tothe following:
ith all Tie and Evin ia fc. To sari that toe domani dele 1” lions mips, tc than toting build
es itn or demi it ho bon ended ty The ar ingr, call oly Sok cto en hers
a esd ie an Smit ihe han oI homes and recreational chi
Tn adivon o Ts and Errata, the document information ager aio Ina Note Abbr the sce of this Cot fcc
inde the ction to sign up or lcs far nib documents and 1h he Pole hes Dot on nese i Shp Bits AT
ee ib Ende ve mpg tone nto Toe de, Code vi

Federal Eelam ar 15-18.

@ balan underground in mines and selepropelid
mobile surface mining machines a nd it ae anche
rice cae

ARTICLE $0 © tvallatione of revs or generation, transiormation,
Introduction anes, enti Norage, of distribution of poset
used coclech for operation o rolling Hoc or ala
Liou used clic for Sain and communica ione
904 Scope: This acick cover use and application, acange purposes
ment, and enforcement ofthis Cod. It abo conor de eapres (4) ivtallatione of communications equipment under the
von of mandato permit. and noveandarry text xine cael of commanicatoni whic bead
proves guidance on tae examination of equipment and on ‘outdoor: o 1 biking spaces eed exclusive or such
Lig panning, and spies the ie and cxprossion of cas aaron i
srements 6) tnmallatione under the coches consol of an cleric
302 Ose and Application ily whee such installation
a Cosi of service drops or sevice cab, and associ
(A) Practical Safeguarding, The purpose of his Coe i the o
practical saleguarding of persons and property from barare b. Moon proper mened oes by theeleatrie utiliy
Crane from the use af eka This od È nor intended ara freon pope sed ares by the che ati
eh specifcalion oc an Instraciion amanual for irae Be wm Te
persons storage, a distribution of eect energy or
(8) Adequacy. Tis Code contin provisions that are consid. ©. Are located in legally estableted cases or eight
eed mett for sae: Compliance therewit and proper ofa oc
matteo fos in an alton that # esentialle fece «è. Are logie by other vite agree menti either dos.
for tamed but not eema ri clin, convenient, of ted by ar songz bs public vies somo
adeguate for good cricca: fatine expansion i electrical ire uly commissione, oF other regulatory agent
pe Raving jacisdiction fo sud Installatione These wei
Loomis Note: Hazard fc or bs of resin Le agen tal be Finke 1 nea ations for the
A cue by thd o ag Det 5 emo A Ha Mena, gencation
{li Fate Pigs occu cme i ng dit ira pe e purpose of "5. 5
oe bl ie clare. Aa ina adeguate lato Sonim ianafonzarion, ravmision, sie) soc
a chaos nid for faure sped casements ar cightsvay cannot be obtained.
. These talons stall be limitcd to federal lacs,
€) Installatione Covered, This Cate covers the insallation Kaine Amerkan tesenatione Girough he US:
andremo of electrical conductor, equipment, and racevare Department of the interior Barca of ban Mic,
teas basco, lands controlled by port authertiet
ern SALINA ELICA CODE om
Coppa TEPA Sorex se ce HEPA Free Acces ir iol or ial. conse o vic
For un ria] Gr oro To rl SPAT asa se SORE REA on


--- PAGINA SUCCESSIVA ---

and nate agencies and departments, and lande nod
att
mma Kone tu 10 a (5: Bangles of aus mag [Io
eo puo Kon spd frre
rena a SR TA oe
en th mad sperato mm chet
SE eh Tm, 5 Tein
armen mr Bh pba CR
first mpg toa Fd
mp els ue ad its tog eg davi
re ie me 1
Stara otra be Rod decath von Sippemontsct mogtee
regrow io gir a state Tea a Same {ovo | [Cooper 8 — Spoow Gaver
printed bey reborn
fret o
(© Relaton to Other International Sandards, The enue
mons in ine Goi aes th funvdamenal pcs di Opere oto
rotection for salety cortaincd in Section 131 of Antenationa] rene DI ent
Ficcboiocbnical Commi, Saad GML Taig [Daga Cotas prereset
Bev tasialiatoni Part È Puntano! Pci, Aopen poise
of Grneval Characterisics, Uefnisons. Yo
first amid Note: See IEC 0303-1 Lne-onbinge Elect read fnsil- = ade ac ?
son yl eis sien fo tf Trey eer Jr—"
meri fieri won oar roan prati E RN [Vo TY my
TT haba poe tt ero
She tn sea he ens pos au . .
hk fea so (pit dnt FIGURE 903 Cote Arangemen
poet hoa ber prima herve
be the reece mtn Coke (© Specific Requirements and Alternative Meibods. Bs
(PF) Special Permission, The authority fasing jurisdiction for Special permission, the authoriy fusing Jaridiction ms vaive
cntoccing this Codemas grart exception for the insalblion af SPetific coquicements in this Code or permit aliermatite meth:
Conductors and equipment that ate not under the exdusive MS where it is amured that oquisaleni objects can be
control ai the electric utilities and are used to conneciihe sic, 2chiesed bs establishing and maintaining cll occ salcty
uric iy supply setter he scr ice conte ol ihr prom: D) New Products, Construction, or Make dala. Thi Cotr mas
iscs served, provided such installations are outside a building or require new products, constructions, or materials that may not
me emai we at a eal Soci aon, ie prc, sya o satel et ay vot
cast the point of entrance of the service conductors. the authorey having jurisdiction may perm the usc of the
903 Code Arsangement. This (ode is divided into the intro. Products, consteuctons, or materials that compls with the most
tian and nine chapter, asshonm in Figure S03 Chapters 1, Focent previous edition of this Car adopted by the juisdlicion.
2,3,and 1 apply gencralle. Chapters 5, 6, and 7 apply to special biformatanial Note: See ifort € Abies FL Adonastratazio
prirdetiagind pen im pis A eee Hg a tar Deaa
Bit borin rire iiss Sa Sp mr
fronds prostchy har
Cape cnr communications yes a fs tbc 905 Mandatory Res, Perma Rules, and Explanatory
to lho fequitement i Chapion iriure iste eens
Fequirementi ate peel ered Crap a marry Ren. History ub of is Car ace toe
Craptes cms tables thatare applicable a elec tai Hendy aint hat are special reo prone
are rane the ro tao es slo lk
Aniocmative amuse not pact o the regimens of tis
Coa ate included Tor intommational popes sols. ® Permissive Rute. Piss rules tis Cade are those
ita Hons ac ina ate shouts but mt ake. are
904 Enforcement normally iscd to describe options or aernate methods, and
eb E ea ali id 08
14) Application. This Coe is intended to be suitable toc al pe
mandatory application by governmental bodice that exercise 544 not de uid
eo ovs eal etalaone, Including sgnal (© Enplanatory Material. Explanatory matetial, such a te
ing and omen ner and lor ue by insana SO Mie aaa Explants marl et a
eden Co te at id do a Cate le i he
(© nmpreimiione, Tre auto ving. accion for Cok the ona al infornational iter or an ik ais
© mpm Tie suo big Reo oe samdaci TE hd at, iRe cell
eres of th le. tor deciding on th ppl i SCE 1 be considered ae dhe lato elon of te sandard
par a aaa a or 0 ERT Such tess inlormtional nly and arc nn locale st
son contemplate in a rember o the rus ceguitements at this Cade.
ei SaroNaLeLeGra a cone aeseitioa
Com IEPA. For cs seo EPA Free Access ai rl be oor coselonarg ics
BE ay en ween


--- PAGINA SUCCESSIVA ---

ARTEL 0 INTRODUCTION 109
racket contining section references to avoir NERA (8) Number of Circuit in Enclosures. I clei proviled
document art for wirmatensl puporc ony and are ros. in dhe Col ht Ge number oF circuit cond a Angie
God ra guile to indicate e on sir burtrity oy Spice Ge number 07
a oho de casa Me wa gi eur mari ci he dice om hom
- Sr o grou tal
rma Noe: The nt and language wd i 0s re 969 Onis of Measurement
ee ea hind ile
Cll glo, vt NER POST e (A) Measurement Spee of Preference, For e purpose of
wi in Cod me we of snr e dn accordano wih
(e modemitca mea Sem Snow ae de. meroadond
©) informative Annexes. Normanton information elaine 410 Moderno
to the usc of the Nas provided ininformative annexes Infor. 7m of Unite (SL),
mativc amar nous of ht enlor eu rogurements o (8) Dud Sem of Onis SI units shall appear firs andinch
Te NEC tare hated to information PUP ony. pound te ch mech oll rnb CRE
908 Formal Interpretations. To promote uniformi of ner. oy rom IEP peut nid 6 SI ame skal be based on bard
preation and application of this (ad, formal interpretation Pap i
Eroccdares ha been ade ate found in de op. Expion: Th abe ed in Informati done C lb poniied
Coon tof STA Siders, practi
907 Examination of Equipment for Safety. tor rec itans (©) Permined Uses of Soft Cameron. The cases gen in
oF couipment and material II © hi Cain. RCI) hous (CD) all nok bt required 0 i Prd
Jibs toe mots made under sandara conditions prode a wren lS eas eh
lor appro where e record made reale aval ei
(rough promulgation by ermine propery couipPodand noche ame ie e nomi oe acs Mal
Que tor maa ing Tetons of dr run of PLS lame a he nomina ite, de Se degra ll
good Beery ad io deteminaion ough tre rer da
fata pecans This mos Ure mecertio, lor re petition of
amination dens camer pun Goh wade. Garated Merl Where material de oxi from
oe faces for such work, and Ge confusion hat veul Shr andar. dhe Content re oh material Sal net
Sorel rom cong report. on dhe sil of doe and en EE ook
‘materials examined for a given purpose. shall be confined to making the syle consistoni widh that of the.
Cis the intent of this Code that factoryinstalled internal AC
weg or he eveicatlon of cquipmani need ne bo peak Industry Practice. Where industry pracics 8 (© capre
at he time of installation of he equipment, cxecpi to ASIC units in inchpound wks. the inclusion of SL unite shall noche
Sicruion cr damage, il couipment rad bear locd bra roman
qualita arial cing laboraiory ue hi recognitcd 2
Tri te ni described ar de coe ragga (4) Safety. Where a negnhe impact on sales vould rel,
es in for ech br rote nh comer al be see
Colo. Sarai all be demir by applico of our: 13 oo py rom inch;
mpliance, Conserion from. inchpound wits © 51
mens that are compatible with Gis Code, units shall be permiticd to be an approximate comersion.
rma Note No. le See 103 tar quidem on day Compliance vith e number Gion hee the Si sem oF
fire the inchpound ecm ll consis compliance mi te
Tformational Note No. 2: See Article 190 For definitions of Code
frat fn mab Se Na, li Had someon oir 4
mab one Sa 8 80 Woe ap A far 4 Ba nf I
IR irta Sh eo a
produci wen sudan Lat arc compatible si his Cade in the original meoarenent. Sot cancia is conidered a
i AT Te he
988 Wiring Planning. deri of a cxiling meoarment but nol in the wid
4 Fumare Expansion and Convenience. Pars and specie Ame
tions dha provide ampl space in raceways, pare raceways, and formal Note No, 2: Somers are bd on (EEE
additional spaces allow for fiture increases in clectric poticr ASTM ST 10-1997. Standard for he Lor of th Piermont Seen of
Commi Grea. Dehn oer load wy Lam me ar
ey accodo Tomar provide Comare and SaS SE
Operation
arts NANA. ELECTRA Ot so
Comm IEPA For cus seo NEPA Free cess ai bo or oor covet, ics
amo was ean oe


--- PAGINA SUCCESSIVA ---

aren ARTICLE 1 — DEFINITIONS
Chapter 1 General
Acqustable Speed Drive. Hower conven cupric that
ARTICLE 100 rr Ean of ang oe pot of a cee
Definitions i
ort Noi: A wrk ey dre È one ge of
Cetra petali pri wits av]
‘Scope. Thisactle contains nls those definitions cesenial to eo of an a clear aor Is contolig he pecs and
the apphcation of thir Gar not intended to include Vole Uh cll past spd i he pista
Commonly defined general rms common defined Koch.  agjasiable Speed Drive Sysiem. A combination of an atleta.
cal terms from claro] codes and standards An article number BIE spec dive, it nceated Moi(#), and aumlary ep:
in patenibescs following the deliniion cates tht the deli ment MPA
fon only applies to tht article
Airerafi Painting Hangar. An alterate hangar conrad for
tb Sot definito to ob rove Mera Painting Ginga ancl bangs ed far
in het Tom bee excl ne of he PAINE cationi ana promadod with dedicato ventlation Span and
anti On alora hanger ade he mita ie lo Capen ad pro
prc vii iN Cal i
(13 NPA SOABIZI. Col pr Ho Puri Grp bale Alternate Power Some. One or more gencrator sets, or
ant Reg ng battery stema where pramitcd. intended 10 provide power
2 SESE md pr Soy Api Lin Hm diring the intermuption of the normal electrical erie: or the
pr ybriry pub unis electrical svi iniendo 1 prode. power
0 SIRT OR. Sumter hr Fi Psi of fnenr uci interuption of svi normal pride by the gor
I Te e fetesal Sisarery Stig acoso the premises, [995.4] (17) (C3MP-18)
1} NEAZIANDI Ari Cor fini Gal Ambulatory Heal Care Occupancy. An occupaney wd to
16) NPA 202. Lf Sofri Cul provide civic or came: simaliancoudy to fous or more
(3 NPA L14201, Suda pr Erano and Sandy Pa palm tat provides, on an outpatieni basit, one or mare of
0 MEA 308202. Fre Poses Sado for Mera and the following:
ets (3) Teeaumere for ations that conde the patents napa:
© NR 02, Sd for oh Comino md Fre Ble of taking Seban for sell'preseriation under emer.
Patti of Morino Tone Pm od Whe ones conditions wthoutthe seinanceof thor.

119) NBA 499-2021. Reranme mlt Proves for be Clean @) Anesthesia that renders the patients incapable of takin
of Came Dro ri imei Chet Een rani,
Tatars of Cred ri os aston loc sl preservalion an

da EA Ai toot ts) Tecatmont for patient who, due to the nati of theic

a or Come of Tray Ftd inary of lest ace incapable of aking action for sok

(35 NATE Strat on mnt hehe prescmation under emetgenoy condos mthout the

Accessible {n applied 10 equipment). Capable of being Bag
Fteachod for Operation, chen] and inspection (HF HOEBBIN] (87) (CMPS)
Ampacit The maximum aunent, in ampeces, that a conduc:
Mccenibie (us appli to wing methods. Capable af bring for can carry continuous under he condisions af use iho
temono or expossa without damaging the billing scared the con
or finish or nol permaneni closed yo blocked by he smi fing ils temperature rath (MPA)
te, other carica] equipment, other bulding asters, or Ampifier (aco Amplifier) (Pe Ample), Elkatonic ouip-
finishof he buikting (MIA) mani at ee the cmon or volage, ar both an a
Accesible, Readily (Readily Amessibie), Capable of being N00 L000 TE RRA PET SSSR
Coaches ikl for operation, renewal or inspections without xm
Coming those to whom teady access is Toquisite to take
acdons Sich a to ic tool (other han eye). lo cl once or Appliance. Utilization oquipment, gencrally othe tha indus
dr, 10 temere obsackx, or to resort fo poriabk Iader, wah. hat ix fastenod in pla, sasonani or portable: de
andro or (CUPI) nomalle bun a sarc sec or Bpe and istaaled of
connectal asa init to perform one of more funchant sich a
a sr aper ded co and a om shen clothes washing, a ondisoning, food mixing, docp Irving,
ko ile Font mea ree ndr nh oem contr ado Fort (SPA)
tions prnidedehen Bere in the EC applica. The device wed to tramfer cncegy between the
Adapier, A device uss 0 adapt a cicant from one configura. ouput: cEcuit and the object oc mase to be heared. (688
ton of an attachment plug or feceprade 10 another configura CNPAZ
bon it the same current ang. (20) (CMP18) Approvei.Accupiable to the authority basing jirisdiction
MP
ow SROONALELECTR AL CODE Breton
Copan NEPA. Zo ci ie or HEPA Free Access ator RI dr Gilt Gon BRGre, ce vice
Fr cain on lA 8 ceo TO TJ sea me ERE REE


--- PAGINA SUCCESSIVA ---

AroFauli Circuit Inierrapier (APCD), A device mended to Attichmeni Fiing, WeighiSupporting | (WSAF) (Weight
provide protein fom the ccc of are als by tecognzhg  Supporing Antackmeni Fiting). A device that, by nection
Ehametcristis unique to arcing and by functioning lo de. ito a weghtaupporting colline cecepiade. establbhes a
crete the ecu who an ace full dicted. COM) connertion betwee the Sonductos of 1he attached iain
forint and th branch ccc conduttori connected to the
Array. A mocharicals and clectricallv inicgratcd grouping of SITET th branch ciceult cond
Modules with support structure, clung ans atached tem “ISN SUPP Clg roccptade. (MPI)
components ih as ntenier(t) oc Actock SIO’) and Cortutiud Note No. 1: A negazione atom
rahe associated wiring. 690) (CMPA) ig Bee Fem Po Pia ve Dren È
eine sa he Bin: A wash As been
Akane. A generic term fora groupof nonflammable siete io mambo mita xo cS een
Chlorinated bydrocacbone us as electrical Insulating mena J are he anabden alleno SHR lo pie ad
(Cupa Sos Big
Cotati Note: dof saba sop] hoe ate Uortuaioud Note No. 2: Sex ANSUNEN WD 6, wren
ct Coder rng conditi th rei prode able FE i Ry Ay pi a
Soin pcb of morn ato hbk rhe sabe configuration Di meli nai dio Pr
ean loi vai er of onde gare dele igs and reich Es A ele
incon the are be. Attachmeni Prog (hug Cap) (Pag). A device that, by insertion
Associated Apparams. Apparati in which the cicultsate no in a reveptack, estabishor a connection between the conde
ieeesaris inrinsalli gie themslcs but that aces the tore of the attached flexible cord and the eonductori CON.
energy in th inteingealy safe ciccuits and is colic on to main. tod permanendy to the mecpiacle. (CMP.A#
tain rine Slt Such appacate (sone af the follosing: ito Ammar, yor siti a single wing
(1) Electrical apparatus that hasa naltecnative type of projec. and muakiple tape intended for use wth an amples lou
tion for isa in the appropriie barardoutt (claifiod) Speake signal sup. (040 (UMP.IZI
bation i
(2) Elcettical appacanie not so protected that shall not be Audio Signal Proceming Equipment (Audio Equipment). El
Lec within a agar (cio location ically operated cqupment that produces, processes oc bay
ores clecironie signals at. when appropriaiciy ampiiticd and
teproducod be a loodipeaker, Produce an acoustic siga!
Cotati Note No. 1: own bed aps I ied iin the range of normal human hoscig (picaly 20.20
iim ut coins. fr Skah ae mei and i). Whim Anke Ga, ine terms equ rent and audio
hc compe For ons ab wri pie Todi Si
Cotati Note Ko. 2 Ancuampie ofcsmitcdappcas processing COUPEE, 640) (CMP.TZ)
is ay ai, wah Ra em detiene do Tai
ie coen Volta ad carton mala i Ue. peste nmin Ko: ciel bs ned
iri nthe Rac Gene) tion sr secca cl pee sajple Mer VDE fata al itent did
Cnc don. reat pie tearaition pl pep
Corsa Note Ko 3: Ser ANSULL 918, Farid Safe Ei compo ah bs audio Gd ig SAT
ins and ined pte on Ur en Cia LTL 20d TL GA ada meda ord an po al enantio
Duni Fone Cah) mins ANSUCL 6731 mb une dein and del poste a and ke.
Extra, Argon, Pt 11, Egat Pees Fits heir me emerrs and Cerone Bron
en RE 560 Ream Pree hi ram ama hac nd Fb amitee
More reds fo. Herat (Cast) Lannar Tk ion bln, Sh he coco of ber oo
pate put Soft or ao SON mio. rah al sth coment È ord ioc i (ning
bate ed Sh nk hn ede of
Assoriated Nonincendive Field Wiring Apparatus Apparatiie Mola route
in which the ereuts ate not necesadiy nonince ndo ther.
scuba that affect the energy in nonincendhe fici wiring Abdio System. The totali. of all equipment and intercon
Crees and ts colica on 10 aia nonincendie cnetgy 1 wiring we to fabeatc a full finctional audio sigma?
levels, Such apparatisis one of the fll ng: pence, amplicon and reproduction sete. (440
(1) Elcctcical appacats that basa naltcinative pe of proses: ©
tion for ine In the approprate hazardout (asd; Audio Transformer. A transform sth tuo oc more clr
location “calls isolater ding and Mal pie taps intended os tte wi
(2) otto) appacane not so protected that shall not be an amples loudspeaber signal sup. (40 (CHIP12)
asc thin a bazaedos {cai location I
Authority Having Jurisdicion (AK[). An organization, oflice
thre) a tt ming be came di è
Cotati Noe No. Li Arie soviet field wg CoA or standard. or for approving equipment, maicrab, an
omar ha Sent a it Nim ene Reid sir installation oca procedure MP)
iar comiectiona Poi Boer RE a aiutata i
dn ana oa for ahr mal ame mut Note: The hr “saris ing rd don
om ABN td SEPA dame i host
ort Note No. 2 Sec ANSU/UL 12120, Seimei cr sive ass oe and al Hee va, an 80
Eicmet Eqvbmatin Cir 1 Cin and 1. cs vd he, bel resa miblde: Ware padi Fe ps, ie autor”
tran È and Adon 6g) ston. for scion i hain rion oe a cera, Su Ta of othr
preety nl Hoe of ine] oh an a fre shel; oe
Marna eT fre prevention cen Le dea. or
SR NAN ELECTRICAL CODE wa
Copan NEPA. Zo ci ie or HEPA Free Access ator RI dr Gilt Gon BRGre, ce vice
Fr cain on lA 8 ceo TO TJ sea me ERE REE


--- PAGINA SUCCESSIVA ---

aura JE
Te IT nel io oe po A Ba ion
Emmy Dh i RR a
Let ne deparinental official may be the aisthonts basin jafi slic MP7)
tion. Bodies of Water, Natural. {Natural Bodies of Water) Bodics of
mete. eto in sis. my of Son rs Se bd of Ae) tos
Bathroom. An acca including a sink with onc or merc of the TO BF (CMP)
ems A gle gf cl ceric pt bing vt (eg apes co ii
Ea ST pd SR N
Battery, Flow. (Flow Battery) An energy storage component Bonding Jumper, Equipment. {Equipment Bonding Jumper)
Spun Do Bo tp, ty oppo ryt Sep ome fs Sper dp
Istes external to the reactor interface. When in we, the clotro. ment grounding conductor (AF)
By, Te vm Thonn
fit in mes, Mola tdi me, The
Bedi te irta Bend mg Ti co
Sn i He en
Battery, Sealed, ened Battery) Ince tht has ro prov x er sido he sumo ale af emi bn
external measurement of cloctrolyte specie gravity and might stem, that ensurcs the required electrical conductivity
Sm do pion Jo pe Si AREA ey
Battery, Stationary Standby. (Stationary Standby Battery) A (CMP-5)
Brien Sony fy Sagem Smtr Pe OD men mento get Tae
Charge an High mate! ATE, in readierefor a dischage comment beanie th pio chon —anbe and ie
Ep tH Sot Bl rch Sud a
[nformatione! Note: Uniniernipiible Power Supply (UPS) conductor, or both, at a separate derived system. (CMP-3)
backup Duminason consisting of 3 Lochargeablc he 2 Bottom Shield, A protective yer that is installed betwoen the
a oy ts mo TN pm mp
Sey esr pot fy mo ee by RAT ST eT
lamps awtormtically upon failure of the supply to the unit gral part of the cable. (324) (MP5)
Berth. The water space 10 be occupied by a boat or other heh th ales protecting
Bo Tegan peo mg som gici
En I ME ERI sem spe, tpi cc A
Ben Sp ld ac po re cul
{formation gd merely conned luminaîtes that are not a part of an appli
ptr orn ct ns com a mo :
pele crei, sad dari an opposte polini connect Singh Sol Gera. Gone Paone Bian
toa common reference point. {UMP:4) or qutlets for lighting and appliances, (MP-2)
PETIA TOIT ps Gira oan dont pr Cit
Ro a SEL SPE re Crt, Motor, (dtr Branch Cri Toc ccs
launching of boats. 1508:5.5.31 (559) (CMP) conductors, including equipment, between the motor branck


--- PAGINA SUCCESSIVA ---

ARTICLE I — DEFINITIONS curia
cu shortcut and gud ul protec device and an Bandied, Cable or conductors that are fed. tappo ape
iat motor PAT “rather pera bound ogee. (526) (C5)
Branch Circuit stolivire, Gialivire Branch Gira) A Busha, A nonislatod soci chica connec fo
franc che hat conio grey me al app and eae nipponica dn an Tanaro
Comair that hate 3 yoke bowie ther, anda neutral providing apowey cal or Camelot pen.
Coto ha har spl cog bw iran ch og. Loch 35 Senor, acaalor AY Bg lovsolage pale
rps dpe ana dhe Ask stp rer aap EH
newtralconductor of the stem. (MP2) Busbar Support. An insulator that runs the length of a section
Brat Glen Slecion Cument (BCSC. The luc [nf Spon cg bo ml ha cr lo support nd lr
Sparto de us ital relays ro JR teal Ate Bieler
rein the ad of oer rh comets. dro
ees Soe arch et arn) SU cen ovis oa cine ising

Ean proven devices where do omg oad CE mount, bac or lac) conductor. which are
protect debe permis a susainod curren greater han he Mall copper or aim bars, cor, or bes. (MPA)
FT pene the ia el The le Canine An exe da fa dine dor ie ta
greater tan the marked rated Current. (990) (MPT) or tim n wiich a Ange doo of door are or cati be bin.
Breakout Assembly. An adapter uscd to connect a multipole CMF)
connector containihg fn or more branch citetis to multiple Cable, Abandoned. (Abandoned Cable) Instalied cab that is
iat branch ea cones 50 (C151 or eared at yrs alk an a tte fey

ors connector and ii ho denied Er fatine wo mi a ta
Broadband. Wide bardi data tranimision tat traepori 4
multiple sigmls, pretocale, and tall iper over satis media (MP8)
en foam Note: See GAGE) GHC) 12225 TAS
hss en EAT, WR
Budi, siucture that sans alone oc ha is separatori
frees Miniter ri entre
À i Cathe, Armored (Type AC), (Armored Cable) A fabricatcd
bulding, Floating. (Floating Ballding) A bulding that oats paces of insulari comducione in a exible. interiockesd
Teg me real regs connection by permanent ale amon. (MPS)
ig eee app eer ve bo co pene Cable, Ci net (CD, (Ci Isegrity Cable) Cables)
part pres iisyten infor inca dor come conto), ialligo
dng Mantra. Oecd Being Ary bi FT dre ala, apical bce, or commentino
ing that is af close construction and is made or assembloin continued circuit operation for a specifind time under fire
iach faves on o ofl the big ste for mala: Coed St
Son or for antambiand itallation on dh bang ate. ot
ames homer, abt homer, park Tere or Utd None: See 7084 for pone cicala add for
rteacational schicles. (545) {(CMP-7) nish.
oii Component, Any mrss, soba, or oiber Cable, Conai, (Conca Cable) A olindrical ascembls
Pendente NN e SR da E opero o 8 ot coat ide a lc ue of
ture, which can ile simictaral, electrical, mechanical, Shield, separated bs a dickctric material, and usually covered
lark anale rocoto andar afece Ya Mg pk. (MAH
ng health and salen (547) CMPD) Cable, Festoon. (Femoon Cable) single. and multiple
cing Syme. Plane, specification, and documentation or comducior cable hei for ie and eon wt Slc
3 RI of mama bulding or fora Bp or maemo! | DY Is toguicd (610) (CMPIZI
ing compone, which can diehude Stra, ATER, Cable, Fiat Conductor (Type FOCA (Fiat Conductor Cable)
ochre and fet protection meri and oe SA Fl Conductor (ype FCC) (Et Conductor Cable
syste affecting health and safc; and eluding such varia. ally cugedocdge and enclosed thin an insulatng assembly
Bon hat i are tha piel by sosiialion, and AOL
Ph rts ate suli tell ao part a the Quid ng of
amendment thereto, (545) (UMP:7) Cable, Insramentation Tray (Type ITC). {Instrumentation
Soy Cable ay kmh af we a more meted
J TE of stone, timer
Tota Fort oF rhc malta romeo) along and oor wh of kit a opt rod conc
Ea andofionto pe maltable wach: Cable, Integrated Gas Spacer (Type 168). [megraiea Gs
Bon otibe apd andol ion io prove able wach depit ai Cable, Integrated Gas Spacer » dmegraicd Cam
er face 108085) Go (MP SE Eo on Eo
Ebdon amt enchorall in a loose fa. onme:
Bali Svitch, An cuternall operated vl ul mn mich Galle hls oni an grad gu pa cable ee
that can ons exci precio and inaeignedtor the a floxble condi as an fy
connection of portable cables and core. (380) (CHP-15) hs through 000 volts (MPA
mestre SOA LEAL CODE ro
Comm IEPA For cus seo NEPA Fis cess ai bo be oor covet, ics
BE ay en weeny


--- PAGINA SUCCESSIVA ---

QHAPTERI ARTICLE 10 — DEFINITIONS
‘Cable, Limited Use. (Lim Use Cable) abl that arc imen- Cable, Portable Power Feeder. (Porable Power Feeder Cable)
ded 10 be used with protection michaea raceway or for speci One tr more Nexime shiekied wiser pover conductors
restricted applications, 722) (CMP.$) enclose ina Tex covering rated from 2001 ta 2 AGG wot,
‘Cable, Mediam Voltage(Type MV), (tedium Voltage Cable) A (MPS)
single or imiticonductor solid dielectric Innulatcd cable rated Cable, Power and Contro! Tray Type TC (Power and Control
2004 volts up to and including SBfOAvoRs nominal (CHF) Tray Cable) A facteey assembly of mo ex more. insulated
Cable, Metal Ciad (Type 303, (Metal Ciad Cable) factory oT sh 07 het are bare or ever ep
assembly of one or more ist Grau conductors th or on 8
Sout optical fiber members enclosed in an armor of inter. ©
iocking metal tape, or a moet o comugated metallic sheath, Cable, Pover Limited Tray (Type PLTC (Power Limited Tray
Cord) Cable) A Gaciorv aes el bia cr more insulated conductors
rated at 00 wit. with or without amndated bare or insudated
Cable, Metalic Conductor, (Metallic Condartor Cable) A oquipment grea ding condicinre, Under 3 nommenTie pet
tees mom of teo o move conten having an overall Spe greuning concn under he jk
concring, (CMI 16) y
i Cable, Service, (Service Cable) Service conductors ina up in
‘Cable, Minerabosulated, Metal Sbesthed Type MI). (uinera oe foots cure MRO)
Lalu, Metal Sbethed Cable A factory are of one or VE 01 Ola cable, (MPA)
mere canduciore insuiated with a highiy campresed refraciory Cable, Service Entrance. Service Entrance Cable) A single
mineral insidation and enciosed in a Tung and gaetight conductor or imuticanuctoe cae provided with an overall
mim appar orale VAs a ao gh lo shomigo
Cable, Nonmetalic.Sbenthed. A factors assembiy of tw or Cable, Service Eatramoe (Type SE). Scrvice-entrance cable
ire nels conduciors encsed within an overall none. having ferent, more res sant covering. (CMPS)
alc jacket (0) §
Cable, Service Entrance (Type USE), Service entrance cable,
‘Cable, NonmetalicSbesibed (Type NB). insted and dened fos underground wre, hating a mosaurerenstant
torsendesed wai an exeall ho mmetalic jacket (MPA) concring, but mot required tn have 3 flame retardant covering.
‘Cable, Nonmetallic.Sbestbed (Type NHC. Insulated conduc: MP)
tervendesed within an overall, corrosion resistant, nonmeralic Cable, Tope BA factory asembis of one or more insulated
et CMPS) flexible ted copper condiucinrs, with associated equipment
E grounding nui) th or then a rade mele
‘Cable. Optical Fiber, (Optical Fiber Cable) A factory avembly S000, 00 TCC nonmetalie jacket. wr
or field sect ef one or more optical fhe having an er Jac. (ts
dl covering. (MPA6) ‘Cable, Under Carpet. (Under Carper Cable) Cabs tut are
i hts op er ale bn ered to be Ei nde carpet, Nor cncring, moddular
cml of ee nf Te pid Hos wiki a eke, The tiles, and planks. (722) (CMP-3)
SE ip Bren odd 4 oc ilari Cable, Undergronnd Feeder and Branch Circait (Type UF
nodali Farr Ome dhe er brash, (ord ht OP Se
i rd he oi he ce ne Somgrond re brah Che Cle merry
be or an overall avering of nenmenalic material uae dor
Gable, Optical Fiber, Condactive, (Conduatve Optic Fiber direct iri nh carta. (MP)
Br A FO: Eu Cante Assembb) An
ll Cee a ang ae UE sembly of parallel contin formed imegra ly with an inni
adc membertt) mich 2° metallic srength member) par i gas
n a e n ale Mi: fating material eb special designed for Gee Installation in
ey Surfce metal raceway (CMF-6)
Cable Bundle. A group of cables that are ted gether or in
‘Cable, Optical Fiber, Hybrid. (ybrid Optical Fiber Cable) A gop ho
Prosi By Clear 10m (40 in. (CHF
i total Note: Radom bc alt of did
Cable, Optica Fiber, Noncondactive. (Noncondactive Optical ubi ca fel ia ke hei Condiog of ihe ctl con
Fiber Cable) A factory assembly of wi or more opical liber E00 5 et De pon A ero cl boc
ating an overall omvering aul conmining ne clear Ci
nd materiale, MF 30)
" ‘Cable Connector. A connector designed in join fst conducir
Cable, Optical Fiber, Protected. (Protected Optical Fiber caller (Tipe PUO) without sing a fuikion box, (828)
Cable) Optical fiber cable protccicd fom rekasing optical (CUR)
radiaton i the abnesphere hiring Nona operati Ag cone
Tons and feresceatie maltunchane in sedi poring, Cable Connedior las applied 10 hazardous (chased) loca.
Conduit cable ay or races {CMP.A4) tons}. An lecical device hat i part of a cable assembly and
es na that, by insertian of vo ating Contiguatiane, eablsher 2
formal Nec: Ser AGL fiplae divmy connection between the cndueinrt ef he came Sveti and
pas 28: Pinton of Epp ant Tarn arsaon Spie Msi pre NI
hte ft a on the nducers of 3 foe piece ef equipment (3MP-14)
nm SROONALELLCTR AL CODE DEE
Copan NEPA. Zo ci ie or HEPA Free Access ator RI dr Gilt Gon BRGre, ce vice
For tunes Seria Boer Gin 5 apr Jan dea sce Care] legali Aa ct


--- PAGINA SUCCESSIVA ---

ARTICLE PO — DEFINITIONS iaTERI
orm] Note No. l See ANSIA 2120, Nonne Cll, Sei Seated Celli A cell that has Do provision lor the
Elrod Caviar Gr Cina land i Dorr 2 amd Ges. cote addition Ol war of STOIC oF for tet) meat
Divers et 2 Hondo asf Laion fr oui urement di clociralyte specific gravity and might contain pecs
ine Feb Soe Suse ele ant, (CREAN)
foal Note No. 2 Cable somos in oer thay i
Rare telosticdi bition ate Mena 10 a male and bonis SoA
titative ic i pve
nail Kise No.3: See ANSI/L 2238. Cable bl i ii
an Paint dn eto Gott and Sane Dean and Cel Line Attachmenis and Aimdiiaey Equipment. A crm that
ANGOLI. Tn human Gov rue Calle simi clic, but ls no Amica to, auniay Bank process Pip:
Jo tmnt te or semper mm quand hacen tor) supports poscia el line conduttori
Re reed Wanna (a dBet Imation Soul and ot Se part, nig Spr:

ion, Them ment nck tools, King machines, cudbies, and Shes
“i a anne cioe vee two (or morc) TF pormble equipment uscd for operation and mantenance
MY) cables are joined together, (MPA) thin the cleetroletic cell line working zone. In the cell linc
Cable Management Spem, An apparatus designer io control working zone, aula equipment Includes th. Sxporca
andoganize lenghe sable or cora CPZ] Conus Aaa of ungrounded ras and a'ane.mounicd
Cable Routing Assembly. A single channel or connected mul. Flbscrvicing cquipmere. (068) (CUP1Z)
pl channel a well as soda Kings, forming a structural Charge Controller. Equipment hat controls de soltage or de
Etero hat is usca to support and FOURS communications wirex current, or bot. and hat swe 19 ChE a Baers or thet
dn cables, opiical ber cable, data cables assodatcd wih one Hore device. (CMPS)
intonation ching: and. communicatione apap. oe Coors Toa device used
Class 2, Class 3, and Trpe PLR: cables, and powcr limited fire Cher | poly py Righicenueno ouipui for wheeler
slm ce ln, et, and geval ppl pe 40 Sia
Child Care Facitty. A building o structure, or portion there,
Cable Shea A single ox multiple byers ot a proteathe cover
bri gle or muliple ver of a proicctite enver: Lor educational supers: ar personal cate sic lor more
(pg bolli ana pres de Soma apc Ber ora ione ei cn
Cote Sem, Foe Basin. Fuceinive Cate Sse) Gest Brees A device despot to open and cioe a ci
bic and compres ed to ute sumably 6 i) 53 TOPSOmate mews and ope the ch culi wna
Sci lor eh ues te conditions, (CMPS 0 premio pcan out do
Cable Sytem, Flat Conductor, (Fla Conductor Cable Spe)
empl ig stem loc branch Ceca Aa 1 agonia ingen ate
for nsaliion under apt ares. (121) (CP) ata
fai Note: The PO cn iin TE FOE ab Chet Brester, Adjustable, (Adpusmble Ciro Breaeri A
ab ochied Debiti, celina adagio pori inni io arbitri ioni sho oe be ot 1
aes and recepisce, trip at various values of current, time, or both, within a prede.
Cante Taminaton, A conection como al an lion fil rg CO
spera and a connector am ination 3 MAT voltage ness DI ui DA
{Type MV) cable to connect rom a cable to a devier, suchas Grok! Breaker, [natant Trip. (nsantancous Trp
{Tope MV) cable to. rit Breaker) A quali term Indicating tat po Achy 1
quipr 5 purpose inworuce In lhe tipping acon of the circuit
Cable Toy Syuem. A unt or assembly! unis o seetione and bresber (CHIT)
Soca ime fori Aus AT mh 19 SE eis Break over Time, (inverse Time Gres Breakers
Tate 0r suppor cables and cena (CHP) ire reer [nvr Tone vee Tie Civ ker
Cablebus. An sembly of unis or sections wil insulare DORA dn te (pT Sci af he che beaker. and
condutiors acing asocatcti Ting Tots a suuctural the delay dectatoras Ur Magnilade of the ure reas
Re weet lo scuri Bien of Support alnducione and (CMPAM
Conductor erminatons in 3 conpleich eoclosca, sR i
protccive meal barn Tur mb È dengred wo ey emt Broan, Nonafatle, Conadossble Cimalt
Bauli curtert and lo widistanri the magnetic iors of such Breaker) A qualiting term indicating that the circuit breaker
fault cumers an docs not Hae any rset to St the vai a the come
i a vhich wil trip or the time emis For Ts operation.
formation! Note: Gls è ordinati spb at he (CHP
poni di italien Tom capanna falde ot -
Rote mama amaro ec on ia oe Class Circa, The pontion of the wiring sistem between the
jt load site ol the Cl | powce sai and ih connote ep
Cll tas applic to batteries. The basic chocrocheral unit, MEP (MPA
Charani by an ano and Cao, used 9 rocche Clase Cir, The portion of the wiring sister bowen the
ee and ebor cial cor gy. (CHP) oad side ot a 12s power source and th conneetod Sp
eS NATAL ELECTRICAL GO on
Copri NEPA Fo skye ast cr NEPA rs Access frm Not fr so: cosa vic
Fo aura Co i cr aver Aa ve Soe RGR on 2


--- PAGINA SUCCESSIVA ---

awe ARTICLE 100 — DEANTTIONS

ment Due to ils power miata, a Clas 2 cult considers Cth and Toy She that can form an explosile misture when

ict om a irc ion Sandpoint and provides plan Sap ici ale at standard Ape presto and ep

protection rom lea shock. (CHF Sere 199,5 55) (CPI)

Cus $ Circuit. The portion ai the viring sim between the fonti Noe: Ser ASTM 1225 Se dod To ted fo

ad side ol a C128 3 power sures and ih conmeciot equi: Eseuttay f Dal Giani 50 BR Eicon es

ment Du to its pom kato a Clas che consideri = Pit Bm, af be bom oe Anita

iets from a fee initiation standpoint. Swe higher lese di n nr ANSULL BNE. Explor Amoi — Port 207

voltage an current han for Clase 2 are premio, additioral a nr de aoe br

salcguares arc specified to provide protection tram an cketric caplosibilia has been de ibed a procming 4 leh fire or

Shock bazatdibal could Enero CH osi Radar una be ameno Qu been air

Cast 4 Circuit, The potion al the wing ers piven the 851 alt 10 caddie Mae atea ope

oad sc of a Class 4 transmicr and the Clas 4 reeves or ed amphericy we

ei aqui. appropriate. Duc to The active

monitoring and corteo di the voliage and curerà provided a Combustibie Cas Detection Symem A protection iechnigue

Cass A circuit comes le (rn a lire inion saps oki ana gu deacons i industrial esahlishmenis

Sr i acer piaie protection Fori Fee shock COR (CHI)

pe Commision

mmmioning The process, procedures, and ising we io

fom Soc: A Gas rks bos commania refenad Ser up ana very the initial perlonmance, operator cortrole

masi py ict piera and sequence of operato di electrical dees

ue tee connected to the Gass 4 and equipment, Prior to being placca ino sce. service.
ciccuit: examples include a Class 4 transita, a Clase 4 CMPAS)

Coches or Class 1 ils aton equipment. (C8P.5) ‘Communications Ceca, A metallic fiber, o wil circuit

Que 3 Power Spm. An actively monitore and controlled fat provides solec/dan and sedated pow) loc

So ming di ne te more Ce 3 menor ame Sommaire betwen. communications

or more Class 4 receivers comeatod by a @hling em. CWP! a

Mr Commanicatons Circuit, Nebrorke Powered Broadband

then A device that sects Class d power ana QWetworiePowered Broadband Commniestions Cire The

Gin 4 Beier, A device tht occepi Class d power and ig fom the communication utile or eer

equip i providers serving terminal or lap up to and including the

lac 4 Tranemies: A device that sources Cass d power, (726) hetwoth interface unit (NTU). (85 CHIP 16)

(CM talornutional Note: A pica imedamii dwelling nemork
fons Kx A Ch nite a deren firm aes nere manici da Cambi ni Romi
ee un o Aa & mas Im for fasi Gil moron sine la NI and made
Incubo and inci moots pon cmon IE Lm al rg emi aL ei 1
frat Bor unter ide each conto oT av wl

Cus 4 Grfmion Equipment. Devices that are dicocuy Commanications incu, Preise. Premines Commarications

rece by a Cast d samen witb A ec fo a pa, Grea, The seu that estende voce, aul, rideo, da

tate Clase 4 recciver (the teeciter is integrated into the equip.  iniccactive services, telograph {except radio), and outside
fara ig tor fire Shimane hutglae slam rom the service previa
i “rs network terminal to the Eons soramunkationi: Fi

Gord Construction Any bulking. building component, meer. a (CVI

serbi, o stem Tarlac in uch a man that all * i

Coal par of proces of mafic anno be pec: Qommanieadons Equipment. The electronic equipment that

tod ale: lation at he budding ste wkhous ier, POOR the Ielecommmanica tions operations Lor the Tans

“rage, amon (348) CMPS) Hood autlo, ico, and ta, and as poni Cours

(gd een eared allego). ocr support
other Closet A ponhahitahle coom or space intended cquipment (eg. computers). and conductors dedicated solely
primarily orstorage af ganncots and apparel. (CMP.1) to the operation of the equipment, {CMF-16)

Cabos Clone Storage Space. The arca within a clothes dose! formato Nole: As the ieleuomamani. ever ina

{9 mich Comma RS mater als can be he pi (10) (CM) lin do a mare doce. ein poe man

i Ea e poscia hme de pea e lo

Collector Rings An assemhiyo! slip rings tor ransierring cle. Toe immmbsion of audio, video, and dite md ate Rodina

ie eneogy ffom a Mationary 10 a roaring Member =A ovis Rs n conati aloe cime Male

Ca To

Combiner (DC), de Combiner) (Direct Curent Combiner) Commricatons Service Provider, An organization. business,

Ao cntionare al includes deviato reni ta Connect fer ar DE ve eigen soy pond

more PY seem de chu parallel 690) (CPLA nvm

Combustible Dust. Sol parle hat ac 301 mo salle Command Antenna Television Crt (CATV), The circu

e maedal pani a US No 3 Domi Sieve gi delinea (hat xine comma, Splenna Ges Aims for au.

in ASTM E117. Standard Spreipcaton fo oven Wir st Sor Fo. data, and ETA oes Fro he es provider

om Saro. rare ope vasti
Dogi EPA. Fores se ce NEPA Fog kes for Holo oir sours, nrg
Forense Sol oe i a ron iraulron o are Sora SGI OF


--- PAGINA SUCCESSIVA ---

AKTICLE 100 DEFINTIONS Arment
iciwork terminal to the appropriate austomer equipment an outer liguikight, nonmetal, sunlight csitant pcket ove
priv an inner flexible meal core ith e<ocated coup ANE, connec.
Cometic Nome Extension, lic ascot, 5 POE 0 the alain ot coc cio
Tasos fou noah tout confucitensb a nog ©
jacket an ex uded the moplasic cooing, or a scala nonme. Conduit, Liquidight sible Noumetalic (LENG), (Liquid
tallic covering. The cbssiication include: surace cmensione git Ple ble Nonmetallic Conduit) A raceway o cicula cross
intendo for Tuning roel on he suriace of mali or cell Haan of various (pe atollo
ingr and concealcd ch pat, eure joint Compound, plat ear nre core and cover bonded togeibec
ter, walpaper, tile, wall paeing, o athe similar maior, O dna having one or more ee roe
ure) the core and covers, designatod as LFNGA
Conceal. Rendered inaccessible by the structure or finish of (2) A amoodi inner suctare with integral enforcement
pm (CM) hi the cats rali, Aes hada LENCE

eed cosa omiseret A mrnugaic intemal and im suas wilout i
priv pole ghia PAR aL esinloccement tin the race wal derignatod as
ingen, car
‘Concealed nob-and Tube Wiring, A wiring method using. oid Note: ERMC i an isi designation for
cr anti Tabs aie hg tor the poe, oma Note: FNM ban dine designato f
tion and support of single insulatea conductors. (MF) -
‘Conduit NonmetalBe Unde rgronnd with Condctors (NUCCI,
‘Conductor, Bare, (Bare Conductor) A conductor having no Sess eden Conia oh Coat x
cosering o electrical nslaton sbabsocva. (CI) {acioty assembly of conto ar cables Inside a nonmetall
‘Conductor, Copper Ciad Aluminium (Copper.Ciad Amica ooh nali raceays kh a circula ross section, (CV)
Condocior Conductor dean {rom a corperclad SIM Conduit, Reloforced Tuermosetting Resin (RIRC, Mein
cod, with the copper metallugicall; bonded to an abiminum forced Thermosetting Resin Conduit) A rigid nonmetallic
core. (CMP6) raceway of circular cross section, with integral or associated
‘Conductor, Covered. (Covered Condudori A conductor couplings, connectors, and fittings tor the instalation of clec-
Cogn by toe Cod 3 coca insulation (50) Conduit Rig Me GMC). (gd Metal Condes A thccad.
Conducror, Insulated, {muted Conduiori A conducor able caccway di SEcular eros schon eign tor the physical
encased vithin material of composition and thickness that is Protection and routing ot conductors and cables and for use as
Cocogniaed by tis Cae electrical insulation. (3-6) an equipment grounding tonductor whe installed wich ts
cpa or associated coupling and appropriate tings (CMI
‘Conductor, Insmlated. (Insulated Condo) Oveheadaevie Hy
condutor enced in a polimeri material adeguate lor the
applied nominal voltage and any conductor eperdescribord in Conduit, Rigid Polyvinyl Chioride (PVC). (Rigid Polpinpi
hitters, ore Cohan A Tg nonna eva) of orcas
noma Kot See IE 516414201, Sandnd fo Notnd ay ning oth. Tistalation of cieeal eondudiors and
et Tos Go snore mat Women Bnd oo CREO
re Rt 609 i tim erred ONCE
pict Conduit Body A separate poction of a conduit or tubing
Contucro, Ons Ovbent. Outdoor Oven Condo. [AT prosa ion (ough canale coer 0
oct, bess. Th interior he ye at a Junction of tro af more secon:
tor Single conductors, asst, coserea, or bate, inal LC INEEOE Di the te ata junetion of tho or
outdoor on support simucturcs in coc ai. (399) (CMPA) poi
oe so ole os Soni ks such ai 15 and FD or larger cat or sheet metal boxes
Conduit Mexibie Metal (FMC) (ie Met! Conduit A quo hat camilica ar conduli Dodici (MP.
formed. intclocked meal strip, (CMPA Connector An clocromechanical fing, (899 (MP.
‘Conduit, High Density Polyetinine (HDPE). (High Dessity Connertor, Inert, (insercell Connector) An cleciricalle
Polyeiyiene Condit A nonmetalic raccnay of cela con conducine bar or cable used fo. connect adpceni Coll
section, wih senchica coupling, concer and ingr fo (CHF)
{he installation of electrical conductor. © MH Sommerer (menier Gorter Connector) An clocsiat
Conduit, Intermediate Metal (MO). (mermediie Mel conducior used 10 cones no cls on dillerent Hrs of the
Conduit A sicel hecadable accway of circular crow socion same rack of dillereni sheleso! th same cack (CMF 3)
igh tor ine physical proicetion anti routing oi orators
and cables and toc sc aan Spur: rounding conducior Connector, Load. (Load Connector) An cketromedhanical
when installed with its integral or associated coupling and Connector used for power [rom the busbar to utilizarion cquip-
appropriate fetings (MPA) ment. (59) (CMPAH)
Conduit Liquid Pesible Metal (LFMO (Liquidight Fess. Connertor, Pendant. (Pendant Connector) An cloctvomechani
be Metal Condit A races of citcular cross section pain 31 0° mechanical oonnoctor used 10 suspend low soliage
i inate or utilaaton equipment blow the grid al and to
destin NATAL ELECTRICAL GO ss
Cooma HEPA Sor skye se cr HEPA Frog Access rn NI ir GANG cosa o TICE
Fir coun or ele 51h Gra | asa CRE RTE


--- PAGINA SUCCESSIVA ---

awe ARTICLE 1 — DEFINITIONS
supply poor to connect rom ie busar io lion cp) ANSIZCL CODA oe rom es. rp
ment (st) (CMRI) 14 ANSUUL L21201. Nomeneridroe Eleirical Equipment for Use
Connecter, Pow Feet, (omer Feed Connector) An cls es en Il bars 5 and cons, ho land 3
mechanical Connector urca 10 mnneci hE pomer PEI 10 3 Hawd Ctovfeti forato
ponce distribution cable 10 connect Acted to Me btu on) ANSIA RE RAGGI frammenti rete fur Wire
to connect from a power distribution cable to the busbar, (3933 Mts fr Host (Crufts Lovers Irtamenton
pris A Free
Control Room. An culos control pace eubide the bois
onan, Prema Sodetews, (Brae Connector) A Gan intended dor a fo hv
lL SEA reel ENR Dr clr The ori co sh con chal
Soc mechanical cquemeni iecd recy in tonncetion
by means ol mechanical pressure and without the ic of selder, O tue TNR, GER but noi ite ig
may machine or the hydraulic machine. (620) (CMP-i2)
Connector, ai 10 tall, (Rail 10 Bal Compson) An loi Comrol Space, ge ey mente
ri DIL ua to be accessed with or without full bodily cntoy that contains
celing grid rail to another grid wil. (443) (CMF-1) the ckevator motor controller, This space mould ako contain
Connector Sip. A metal wiroway containing pendant os flush cen and/or mechanical oquipment used Secchi
cevepiades. (940 (CHI) oo th er, de, cv ne
i all oc pittom iti, hut not the cence wing machine e
Container (as appbed 10 batteristi. A snglocell or maliceli al ci Poem HE bano the clot
Sev or hr that holds the plates, clectrolyie, and oiher 0° BFdaulic machine. (20) (CMP-12)
Elements ola single unit in a batter, (CPI) Comi Spur The mel sen gove cig
sopping. ditection of motion, ele. cen
Continous Load, A bad where the maxima coment x Se eee me ST
“Sipoetca imcantinue ot 3 owes or mare (MPI i
‘Comroller, A device ar group al devices that seen ta gone
Control. The prevetotininod process of connecting, discon {i some preeteemined ‘manner, GE TAT
perline, ingrcasing. oc coding clocide power (088 io le apparati to mich CE
Curia ree in
ire ‘Contruller, Moson. (Motion Comrolleri cada
Control Circuit. The circuit of a control apparatus of SEM 4eiccter'for that part of the control system that gos crs the
bat aries the cleciric signals dicciing the peromanes ef cceletation, spect, retardation, and sopping of the mos
cre doge foi ear he main on Se es O
i Informational Note: The motor comu far on ray he inte
Control Cin, Et Toler Exeral E Token Ex: wom
nai Corr Circuari Those control citeults either iting or
Fie Me paro controllo roe Nh ren, mr, Motor, (tar Controle) Ary eich or devi
deconneate, or hod ih noi resent ie controller fo ati ncrally us to start and top a motor br rake
ee
means and may cause ihe controller lo start the pump under Corroller, Operation, (Operation Controller) The ckatical
tese conditions, 645) CALP-13) et fo pr oo nc ge dii ire e
Control Device, Emergency Lighing, (mergenry Lighting “Bring, Hopping. and disceton of mation in fesponse 10 3
Comore Does A marie GE die mena 18 signal from an operating device (020) (CSP)
perform one or mare emergency lighting control tunctions. ‘Comverter, DC40-DC. (DC-10-DC Converter) A device that an
(700) (CUP 13) provide an output de voltage and curtent at a higher or lower
mati Neve: Scr UL 928. Enry agio ag and Pe alo han he inputde voltage and curceni. (CMPA)
aan fr diorami SENESI Com Cima, DOLODE, 9G rE Comers Crit)
«oi The de drcuit conductors connected to the output of a dein.
Control Drawing. A drawing er ether document povided by decomence (MPA)
He Trt of oc rah Sie arci oe dee. That pt gl the heating epiprnt that
tas. cof te ee 10 ring appartata aondred  Comerang Dec, Thai part pi te eating cpr, th
rns og ret Th be SIN TE mee (es
interaonnertions betwen th Icy sale and smodacd SUE, and roguenoi ured for the beating applies. A
apparatus or between the nonincendive fold wiring apparatus ing de i cquipr ing line cure
dr arsociatcd nanineerndie kt wiring appara tue CHF 19) ali smile malipher, elle te unis wing acu ube
fmt Sox See te li ss fr blind en 003 CIE
oe ‘Cooking Unit, Coumer.Monnied. (Conmer.Monnied Cooking
©) ANSI/ASA/. 20202 Bamana fo ite ric. ©
Tame and gare Fons Sale la tif Dimmi Unit A conling appliance designed ter mounting in oc on a
@ SLD mech Sf spb nd anzio COUMIST andconilng ing clo
At to BE Di Devon Hvis lw, and atk or mean control (MF)
fe lai
Cooma HEPA. rsh io NEPA rs Access arn NOI or GG cosa or 7ICE
Forres Solos i Ca por PAUP et ate Sora SGI OF


--- PAGINA SUCCESSIVA ---

ARTICLE 10 — DEFINITIONS aunt
‘Coordimation, Selective, Selective Coondinationi Localization scat to print care tha ace amtormically comeetea to
Di an onerturteni camion to rertricioutages io the circuit or alternate power nce by one Ge more Tate hes
wae Ach aceomplishedby ine selection and installa: during interior of he‘ ne power source. 19928830]
tion of osercurtent protective Acces and hele tinge of BAI (CM IBY. Fo
settings for the lange of rsa cream, fom over: . i
load to the available fuk cuccere, and for the full range of Critical Operations Areas, Designaied (DCO A), (Dedgnaied
avercunent proteetive device apenas times asodatod'wiih Critical Operations Areas) Arcar within a facility or ste desi
gpecuren: potetne devi pretended 2 a
Cord, Flexible. (Flexible Cords Two or more flexible insulatod Creal Operations Data Sysem. An information technology
Sort Presb Beso Cord) Tro oc moe ten pret quem that. tomes Continue option. fo
TREN Tobie mio: ages managers, nation]
Cond Conetor. A contact device terminated 10 a floxble svar: o buns connie. (9 (CAP 1E)
Goria aetep an sine pr ch mens. CLC oe so
aioe par of facies ak Fare sot mas ion
Cond Connector fan applied fo barasdous (classified) lore: for the teens Of publ ACh. eee Tg.
Bons), A Gig intended to cite a cord toa hr sini. dora] sun or nce comin: CS 19)
bc deviance the sen at polis of rina Mn Box An enclosure designod oc tac moun that
igh le an col om doar dover weed doch to and 6s:
ing with ie abot ihe emt (CMPS
Cond Set. A length of ox ccd basing an attachment plug
Cond Set a length of huni cord basing an aac Data Cee, Modular MDC). (Modular Data Center Feats
atone end and a cord he other end. (CMP 4) cated units, rated 100 volts or lese, consisting of an outer
Comore Emironment. Atcasar encloses without adeguate enciosite housing maliple cacks or cabine of formation
ventilation, where elcarical equipment ® cated and posi iechnologr equipment (TE) eg. srer and rarioue
tat chemicalsate stored handle. depend (AO) support Spin, sich a electrical service ana distr buon
pee qupreni TRAC worms ano like 818 CMF 1D
frm] Spo. Ser os Smeg Pod Css: Sumario] Note: spiel oso ma me «savant
Bin ONE So To TT ST ek i amine pr re er mot
Co See Comer To. Emiramen Fabio: a of Ec mie omo i
RB Rr ald om os are cere i Cos poe a wi FS
oe a Tal oom red dine or enti of ero it i on Moda data ns ec
a em et i a ST he Tae
prota ou sale Of ie yl og td on (it amnion at Pala en onl
rp ren ine fekrae chioine sea iti: ipa di aa dl nane ari
dino set ooo Ina le coe ite 74 toc ni E
oe ANSUATSEL Str pr ee aan came Noale ia curdo aule calare
Gory in Palo Fedi nat poi ASSUASHRAE GEL Table 63 DC Phgging Box. Ade douce consising of one oc more 2
STERIL AE pe CE pt oon: nics
mead fegaironienia sein adeguate siti intended to be used onde circuits onl. (37) (CMP-15)
et Ee os had om Des Front. Milioni Inc parts saps to a pron on the
frtvghrperfubivt ib Sl ities SR oo PA rl tc 1
sive vapors. Chemis such a CIE une severe worrmive erating: owe « 4
and deteriorating cles m chica cme tions, oye, Demand Fagor. The ratio of the maximum demand of a
piv pcivia tibet e mne N te, or part af a rete, o the ital connected oad of a
Comm Cantore nt oe ses ala ply Sma ile parole ante ande aaron, (CPI
chad for food preparation and <n. personal labo, Dental Office. A building or part eccof in whic the follow
or Tieng or 3 mt usar thai pressi aon riso! gone
iba of lager quart of liquid pon oles moaned (re - J.
gc of lager quan of lg minatore and minoc  tratmens/procedures
f= thc surface. (CMP-2) performed under the continuous superision of a dental
Lnformational Note No, 1: See UL 498. Ravrgencie and Atm brani Professionali
op an CLAS: Bed Cont figa whet (2) Use of Amica to minimal sodation and treatment or
AE ethan ontario coer and oso ch procolutes ha do not ree the patient incapable of
2 Eoltprmereation lo gency coins ah
Corman Koi No 2: Ser 40650). MACH, ot 13) Nogremighi age fo palienior 24 bout aperatione
Tonos na eco on ura HSS MPA
tern disingushed fro recepite for work artes Device. A unitof an clectcical stom, other than a conducie,
Crane. A mechanical oie we for ing or moving boats tim cate of controls cette eve a Fe principal ann
130853 61 (855) (MPT) ’ " hr) oper
Critical Branch. A tem of ocr and brane ccs suppli- Diet Heating, icatng of a nominali molting material
fog power for ok Mma, ined equipment, ot re An to its oh diclceirie Fo sh the material is piacentina
RAG, a soka pwn Shani amin Sree did riots ving coe ela TD
[A nw
Cop EPA rss ve a DET Fog cess afr Ft or oir sours, nrg
amo was ean oe


--- PAGINA SUCCESSIVA ---

arena ARTICLE 10 — DEFINITIONS
Disconnecting Meana. A device, or group of devices, or ther Duty, [nserminient (Iasermittent Day) Operation for alternate
means by which th conduc of ck can be disconne: vai of 1) nad and no ina ar (2) tod and rest of (8)
ted from thi source of ply HP) oat ho har, ness (C117
Disuibaion Pons (Center ard Poe) (ser Pole). nce: Day, Periodic (Periodic Duty) iniemitent operation in
Coup poi FE ich Tt drop», Eve conduttori, vbich the had conditionsare egal resuren. (MP)
order a branch circuit 19 building: Se Amite hed
fees, on branch ius to buildings o Daly, Short Time. ors Time Day) Operation at a subian
nr single manage pple (47 CF) Balle Soman Toa fo a Shc ar re. paca re
Uformationa Soe The se pin ly itt the Hp
an
oo - Duy. Yaring (lying Duy Operation at les, and for
nero Conall Ove Chuie Conote iveron Det, ASE, (Dy, Coot os and tc
Losa Controller, Equipment ha optes be op Dl a tion devin
Source o Chat proce Sting poni io decelehtanà
a altemating Sar sr oan Pi come my sv. Direlling One Fama (One Fay Dueling A building that
py Comins Ey one dnl unit, (COP
Divenion Load. A load commeac 10 a dnerion charge Dueling, Too Family, (TwoFamiy Dwelling) A building that
controller or dnersion bad controller, abo kino a dump Cones kof reo cling is, (CPI)
oad CUPA Dwelling, siultifamiy. lami Dwetting) A building that
Docking Fai cover ox open, ned floating striature contalnsibecc or more dweling tits (CH)
hat protics accesi to he atc and lo sich frati ate Deng Un. A ost ut, providing comple and ele
secured 1333.71 (988) (CMP:7) mend Lr tans or oo ae peroni, including
Dormitory Unit, A building or pac in a hin in which permanenti piossios os bing, Sleeping, cooling, and sanka
group sleeping accommodation are provide for more han tion IMP.
Ya persona who ace no membres of oe. Same rails in ene Elos Discharge Lighing, Sys of ill ’
ci 2. Sisters of ilumination ulin
or i Ford ron ak Hen Le ores aves CUD) pn
nna cooking Foi, (Cp 27 neon bin, (Ibi)
Electric Power Production and Disibation Network Power
Drop Box, A box containing pendant ac Must mounied ccp. production, detcibution. and utilization equipment and fasi
‘acs attached to a malicomductoe cable via aan relief ora Gen, ch he ly ome that ace connected 10 premo
lipo connec (321) (CHP) Shing and a cine to anal no controllo by a em
Dastprifonproof. Equipment crcosc in a mance that thatoperaies i iicractive mode, (HPI
nA dust anal does ni peri! aE spark or beat other Ec Sign oh star 0 poriable sical
pie ged ber inside of scl to cave electrical operated and/or cleciricale tumiared utlimtion
in of estero acon or atmosphere panier SCI opestod ado chiral ilamia ted wiiaion
ci a pertica dust on of in dhe icin a he Sore, CPt wil work ot symbols desig
warn
. Elecuic Sappiy Stations. Locations containing the erating
pmol Note No, l Ser SAUL 1205, Brg Ry Wi wi
Doonan Note Nol sce SAUL 08 Ben Gutione anti subetatione, including pi arte ener
i Famer omnia Morage baler, Eater, and sch? atcas (CPA)
peo Es EbecricVeick (EV). An autoreve chil for oncond
Uformatione Kore No 2. Bce KEW 20 Ears fi Firrl ue, such  PSETT Soro, abe, (ay ne
pet Ti in rail oi Wott an bochood See Ren, and clic motorcycle primal
wo Tato mae wie a pone by an ee ovr Qui drama het fom è
festa: Fochargeabie storage toy Ft cell. petals. amg, on
Dustighi. Encl ict so hat dust sl Sint mute oi ii cui Plug. ae pein
Dt dust mil not Ee are ct eehicles hang a eon our of mouse
ei i pont (CHAZ)
Como Kine No. Lec ASCE 21201, Norma .
rnd Noe Ny Loe SUL R001 Neste mol Noes Om, elfprpeloi cane bik
Iena È ani 3 Bi mon Coron for send in ond nds BE fo nari i
ori pe AN
Smo] Note No 2. See NEMA 20. Enna fo rod om
pe Sa emacs ah SL Se iiss Elec Vebicle Connector, A device that, when clcrally
HE Sorgen Freon Sovtesren, fai si coupe {conduct or mbicike) lo an Skee vehicle mck
Bl tos nee Te SSN 38. S8X 4 4% 5 sable an cca connection to he letee eich for
fei Dina arenile elimini dx purpose panes Taner and information exchange
Daly, Continsous, Coningous Duty Operation ata substan: 625) (IPD
ally constant oa for an Re long time CMP 1) pmo ox: See 62348 forfariber norman mir
on [ER
Dogi EPA. Fores se ce NEPA Fog kes for Holo oir sours, nrg
Fauna oT i cr aver Asa oe Sa EGR om 2


--- PAGINA SUCCESSIVA ---

ARTICLE 10 DEFINITIONS iaTERI
Elecuic Vehicle Power Export Equipment (EVPE). The cquip. brs of has cams and tse rato. camping and
ment, Neigh mer Agta that Brie At hy preci parlo
feck: Reigate Tig Yim Ja: og ilcr arca abete
Be clerical pone a kage ge han ox cline BB oh i starai
vchick as the source ot suppl. (823) (CMP.12) toe cn de lhe clued bali sah engine ok be
rehome enim woe Manta: Eleulhed Truck Parking Space Wing Spena Al of the
he fe wes contained In one pie o cone elcctrical wiring, equipment. and appuricrances chin to
Carinae refered tn a a bielirovtiona] coe vehicle supply ckctrical installations within an cketried uk parking space.
en (ESE rae whee ponti eile, includng The cleared parking space supply cquipiment
Chm (NOTE x) arin
Elecvic aide Supply Equipmem (ESE) Equipment foc Beso. The mu hat provides fon apo ec
Ping charging, [yang (he ungroundo, grounded, and anisin heen the poste ant negathe eletronci a a cell
Equipment grounding conduttori, and (he Seem vehicle {CMP 9)
connector, anachmeni pg. pervonnel protection sen
Cormeen aiachnent plugs penne prion ER  Decuobe Cell, Atankor var in which ckarocheimical ea
riko Spel or the piers of Tumion ing encogy [omic aid by appli loca cee lor the purpose ot
betueen the prembes ting and the Clerc wchicle. (gy Eng or producing sabi mariah, (661) (CHP 12
ih iecuobie Cell Line Working Zone. The space covchpe
Informational Note: Electric vehicle pow er cxport cquipment wherein operation or maintenance is normali performed on
and elet tie y chive supply cquipaeni of widen power tamer or in the vicinity of exposed energized sur aces of ckctrolytic
Cin IVETE ot oct concn ir ne pine of col lines of thei tach nes (AN ACMP.IZ)
pris mv pe ed i
come, etn Elecronic Power Converter, A device tats power cletron,
ion WI ict conver melo of sce Tial one into anoibec tonn a
Elecoicat Ciru Peovcive Spe. A stom consisting cheval pores (CMPA)
components and Iara inte mica tor alton a POE. ee erie ot
bon toc sped electrical WEing Aes wkh esperito Ie arn! Note: Exile of hon oss somes,
mito! clocrcal rent eg upon exten expe. de tee ht ed ce fo meen
sure, (CUP16) Curent vapabiliios based pn the dee (AINE al niu
Elecoicat Deum Plane. A specifica ecrtical ditance above the Sed pont
meal Bighorater Ie) at which chem) equipment can be Elecuoncally Protected. A ded with cle
g i. A motor provide vith closteonc
raid cecal connections an be made C5) control that Is an inegral atta the mar and pretees be
Eiecrical Ducts Electrical cons, other raceways round ‘Mole 352s, dant overheating duc 10 alice ol the lc
cai Due Beal ons of G1 EOS troni conirol. ovgrioad and allure to start (487 (CMPI I
embedded in concrete (CAPA) Sor Lame, Baird, (aver Eps
Electrical Life Suppor Equipment. Elcctrically powered cqui mergeney Luminaire) A liminakc with a rechageal
ee hose com Era © sevens lo mapa | Battery bats charging cam and an automati bud
patient's ite. 19938345] (317 {CP 15) control relay. €CMP-13)
eed Resistance Di 609301”, Type i Emergency Luminsire, Dsl Controliea (Directly Control
protection [a the purpose of producing heat on ihe principle Md Emergency Luminaire) A liminaite supplica by the facility
Gi clcetoical tesstanee and wpleally composed of one or more EMeLgen power see and wich a control input for dung
Inctallc conductors and/or an electrical conduct material, OF SWiiching that provides an cimcrgeney illumination Ieecì
sutably clectcically insulated and protected. (CMP.14) upon loss of nocimal power. (74) (CMP.13)
Ee Sale, Sea RU, OTOL tb mee toi oie See ANSI 920. Faria ah and
omne Ste de NSULL oral Eile or, iain ortega Sonic
Foseng Regumaet, fo radio information eerpets hair
Etecuimlly Connected. A conostion capable of caciyn  Emergenoy Power Supply (EPS), The suet of cette
Cine 2 get tro connection Iirough eleczona gi PTE Ol he coquieeri capacity and gualky for an emergency
netic induction, (868) (CMP-12) Ponce supply system (EPS). (CHP)
Elected Tok Parking Space. A ck parking space tt Bonergency Power Supply Spmem (EPSS). A complete tune.
Bas been provided whly an Fecal sister al alions mu Boning EPS aterm couple 0 a system of conductors, dicon
operators to connect ther chicks whic stopped and to we NCCE means and evercurtent protecive devices, trandct
olt'boari power sauces in order to operate board sysicins  PtEches. and all control, supersisey, and support devices up to
Such ae cong. heating, and applanees wows any and incline the load tenninals of the amt equipment
such 3 le condoning, be oc lor the vn: lo Gperate 53 sale and reliable ures
i 8. (626) i ot cette ponte. | L10:33.4] (CMIP.AS)
nr Note: An cle th pring spose ao © A a sal
ie See Trig steso or here dute insigni mergency Symes. steam egaly scqueot and
a Bom at, dei alle Chel 3 regency by Municipal, sale Rectal, or oiher
Ls oordcr ma li dee mot imbide ale sinti a coke. or by any goverminenial agency having Mirisdicdon
destin ANAL ELECTORAL COE 1037
Copri HEPA Sor sce ist cr NEPA Frog Aces afr Nol or cun tor: cos vic
For urti Sol Shoe i a SpA o are Sora SGI OF


--- PAGINA SUCCESSIVA ---

arms ARTICLE 10 — DEFINITIONS
These ser ace mended to automatiall suppl lumina: Entertainment Device. A mechanical or clczomcchanial
tion, poet, or both to designatod arcas and equipment nthe device thar provides an ouertalnment expen. (20)
cento failure of the normal suppl or in the cer facet (CHD)
to clemenis of a sme, intended 9 Suppl. distribute, and
oro None Th dss tan Im hate anit yo,
control power and lamination essential for safety to human {NBS Tec he cn bes pret i,
tee. (CPI) orraed wh allo and IRR to rome hain
Encapiulation "mf. Type of protection where cecil pars Meneame,
ihatcouldigrite an explonive atmosphere by eitbersparking o: Equipment. A general term, including lings, devices, appl
heating acc encore in a compound in such a way that this ancor, lorie, apparati, machin andthe like used 5
exposes atmosphere cannot be gic. (CHP-10) pac of. oF in connection wih, an ckarial insalhton
Dr Eine ov MPA)
She ft 28 Equipment punito di cwpuleen "a", for Equipment, Mobile, (Mobile Equipment) Equipment with cle
i wi wal Compaen ha i saab 0 be moved only wih
Encioted. Scout by case housing, ence, oc lls) that mechanical akk or it provided with wheels for movement by a
proventi pecans from real conieimg shtgrod pars. pesants) or powered device. (913) (CHP 1)
ow i :
Equipment, Portable, (Portable Equipment Equipment ed
Enclosed Break. 1asing clecirical malisor.hecale contacts sch vath poral suck or cables niente to be moves from one
that ian veel explosion of the farmabie uo sapor that lac to anther (840) (CSUP.L2)
can ener ous, he devi ill meta nd the Bccaal cap i . '
iipment, Portable, (Portable Equipment) Equipment with
on mtb leg damage dot communicating he Gera on, tati to be mora TA pen
internal explosion to exer larmabie gas o 1a lecial components tabi to
[zt io: mechanical aida. 511) CHP 14)
fib Note: Ser ANSVLL 21201, Svimtor bon Equipment, Portable, (Portable Equipment) Equipment fed
attrae pr E tos fond fi a Got Door Mit POrtabl orde or cables intended to be motor from one
Torre do lho Loon or ind Place to another. (520) (C15)
Equipment, Portable, (Portable Equipment) Equipment inten
Emo. Tho cis or bog of appari o he fee gr do Be moc fom ane place ae. (50) (C15)
Sal surouning an Installato 10 Present personnel fon Equipment, Signal, Signal Equi
o pret, Signal. (Signal Equipment) (clues audible and
acciaentaBy contact ag cetgiacd parts or to protect ibe cui: yal equipment such as chins, songs, igh. and diplass
men om physical damage (CMP) tnatconer information to ie us, (028) CAR 15
Location Note. See Tike 1028 for esame erimare Equipment Branch A stor of focders and branch chai
ore arange for dela automatic, of manual connection to the
Enetgiavd. Elcetrically connoctod to, or is, a source of voltage. alicmale power sce and thal serves primardy phase power
(COMP equipment. 19933 51] (17) C13)
Energia, Likely so Become. (Likely 10 Become Energiedi Equipment Protection Level (EPL), Level of protection
‘Condlciv: material tht could become TREC because of sgn to cqupment based on ke likcliboori of becoming a
the failure of chanical inubiion or ebeical spacing. source of gian, and disingubsbing the dilferencos bebe
(MPA) pli gus atmosphere and esplosite dti SCAB
Energy Management Sysem (EMS). A mato consiing ofany MPH)
of he Following: MONIES), communicationt equipment, 3 liformalio nl Note: Sec ANSVLL GON Exot Atmmipbrre
controllet(s), a Generis). or other devices) that monliors — Fos O: Fypeent— met Rogrimenta Fal sodio Fo
and/or cont an ckatical nad or a power production of man
wage source, (CMPS) Equipment Rack. A farcwork for the support, enclose, or
Energy rage Sysiem (ESS). Onc ox mere deviecs istalledias both, of equipment: can be portable or stationar (641)
a mors capable of sori orgs and providing cher (CHP)
enemy into the promis wiring stem or an electric POV (rman otc: Ser EVGA SOE. Galera Arh.
production and distribution network. (C15) [ting pti of oguipmeni
rot Note No. An ESSO can inc but ot rai
LE ei apa and Kc nata Fe ER Equiporenal Plane, Condudive pars boned together to
ck aid cameo id ESSO) an cide merc Pe en?
oer bce ke ee Di to me a hoe ToAORT voltage gradions in a desiratod area (62) (CMP.I7)
Retin an or admin Equipotentisi Plane, Conductive clements that are connected
tot ote No. 2 There stente froaa sialonary together to minimiae volage dilerences. (CMP)
Manila bale alal alte a balers pen le Muto À cal System. A sorter comprised of alternate
di ie tie 1 amati Boat shag ve in a Bh state oF a conce dba rth an
hae retina osm uigeereni por dall conii ies and ancl.
qipren, designed to cisure conti of chara
owe lodesignaicd sas and fanctio nsof a beat ac ay
Haring doa of normal prove soutee?, and se to mini
om [Tp
Coun HEPA. For escluse us ce HEPA Free Aces ir iol or iil. cose or vic
Fo ines soa] Hse A ro ep Ahn ste Sen EERO o


--- PAGINA SUCCESSIVA ---

ARTICLE 10 DEFINITIONS cHAFTERI
mire discuption within the intermal wiring sete, 1993352]  Liformational Note No. 2. Aska per cists albo
Bin (CPI) pig la ar Cla deo
Explosionproaf Equipment. Equipment crcloscdina caso that Pauli Current. The curceni delivered a a point on the mers
ET wha an cxplonon of a ra par hcg asboricienitcondilon MPT)
sapo that might oct oR {bt 4 capabll OF ESCA qu Carp, Available hee Fant Curent) The bt
the ignition ol a ped gas or vapor surrounding tho cl oun of urn capable of being delivered ata point on the
Sure by sparka, athe or explosion of the gas ot vapor wathin, mans of ATCT! apabk of bing delivered at
and thal operates af such an estemal lemperature that a ng 2
sarounding darmable atmosphere wll nor be ged [obra Note: shots esi can xe during bond
eta odo ah a a Gall bat <henk comin oo

orm Koc No, Se ASSL 1208, Ein Tmo ak. ce odio oe Epos 10
I ete Ei Eons pr Co feted Eau Protection Device. An clecironic dove that is intended
roti someon ods oud 4h for the protection of personne] and functions under aul
Unformalio nl Note No. 2: Ser NEMA 250, Encosurs pr Ebcnent condions. a a ra a
gg ment (1000 ot rma Tor aon, on on
CoE Turo. bare ae meine: tony oc boi, fora bw power network powered broaden commie
orb ications secu and provide ac able proeetion from ele.
eto pat, Capable of being ina tric shock. G1) (CAMPA)
VT ouch Ge approscheHi mies Ian a lc dance a Fest, AN cic conductors beween the venier eure
mayo the. so of a separately deed scm. of ibe poe
pon (OU) upp sauce and he fina branch deat enerauere device.
formation ot: TH co alito pas htc wis ENER
ded bt ed
Exposed as applied wiring metho) On or attached othe Esta elia he Pe undccdhasis fede
surface or behind panels designed to allow access. (CMP.1) together mith the necesary iting and equipment: or the
Exposed (Optical Fiber Cable Exposed Io Arcidental Cantact),  powcrsupply cord asembb for a mobile home, rocrcatioral
Aconductive optical fiber cable in such a position that, in tec vehicle, or park traikr, identifica for the delivery of energy
OF alate of supports or nsulation, contaci between the ables fram. the sourer of checrical supply to the panclboacd within
Ponaurtent cotng condicio members and an ehori the mobile home, recceational vehicle or park raer. (COLP-71
crit might cole (CMP.46) Festocn Lighting, string of outdoce lights that è suspended
Exposed (lo Accidental Conta), A circuit in such a postion between bro points, {CMP 1)
tha in case of failure of Mupporti of insulation, contact with
another deculi may esule (CAP.IA)
Exposed Conductive Surfaces. Those surfaces that are capable
of ming cece current and that ace protec, uel
tod, wnenlore of unguardea, peamiLing personal contaci Soniye: ae acts ——+f soma
19.5351 (917) P15)
Urmatind Note. Paini, olin, 1 sib coming are arene muncurere
Cote saab hone ah are ie far oh
Externally Operable. Capabk of being operated without
exposing the sperato to contact with five parts (CMP-1) Avabtle faut arent -
Facitity OnSite Power Production. (On Sile Power Production were
Facili The normal suppl ofc ix power for he sie tha Egiomant en a tact
rpoei to be constant producing power. (89) (CP 1%) pri Pee
Fastened.in- Place. Mounting means of cquipment in which the | coro |
fastenng means ate spocilicallo deri 10 prt femosa] Over tert peoetia doce AI
without the sc of a tool. (625) (CMP-1Z) wi an mepng rang i
Fru. Managed Power (FMP). A powcring stem that monitore
Tor ls ant control CUT delivered To ensure fault energy
is limited. (726) (CMP-$) varie fat current
ont Ko Ns The monitoring asd soo sch
erent las mario pst Tram hc ib nd oe
Ch econ hema reponse of Cher
Vion Fare ie egos mia irc Nec ani tono
Frost fart revit Sheed
dio ere. oi and materiale
Enformational Note Figure (46.0 Available Fal Curr.
Ebi SAUNA ELECTR ALO re
Cooma HEPA Sor ska is cr NEPA rs Access arm NOI or GG costar ICE
For veunes on lA 3 0 05 me CRE REE


--- PAGINA SUCCESSIVA ---

Fibers Frying, Combuntibie, (Combustibie Fibers Fyings) od dni dbo soda ih Arik Sof
Fier ng, where any dimension i grec than tare nh be HABA SALA
nominal size, which can form an cxplosibl mixture when Field Evaluation Body (FES). An organization of part of an
susperdad ini at standard atmospheric psc and IR. onpanbation that pettonms ikl oaluaione a cecrical or
datare. 14883301] (O10) other equipment, 596334] CHE)
rmsd Nok No 1: Th dein at informa
fpr Noe NEE B21 Sand fo Grey
En Fn i a
5 Tht Feb Ertootor Beek pokes gradire. Tor
FL MaI, Rmned Poser hi de eter of i ve ki, amis ok a od
Tuma Dati and of Ades one Ls fe Fao ming felt i ot SA da nd nt
kn 5 evr REE fer ming fed ula of
is in bracken Only editorial thanges were abate the exif >
fering Field Labeted (ns applied 10 vaio produc). Equipment
pe or materiale to which has born attached a label smb, or
tod Note No, 2 Sion HAD) def a Clan 1
location. Comtbuvble Rhers/ilyingy von be sina in physica other identifying mark of an FEB indicating the cquipment oc
To to lk Bin and prc sa le vg Mmiteriale exe etaluated and found to comply with equi:
en obs meh Exams oC ray mts adc in an accompanying fk chain pecs
oe EAL ll ip Posi mead 100356] (CM)
HA Riina mc the Fer Maio
Th aes fimo al omni vcd Fire Alarm Circuit The portion o he vic stom between
Fa ian Soh ale th mk le the had Side of the overeurreni device or the power rated
el ng fee in In ict ch den pple and te comaseied equiprieni of all dediti power
RT Ci Tice controlled be re lama ers Pees cies ate
Ego He Abii ri
hides eh fois Vth pooch dlamiied ober son-powee mid or paver lmited
rata :
iforaational Note No. 8: Ser ASTM E1206, Sindoni Tot Limited Fire Alari mr pdr 458
iit fo Cabin af dti Claut 50 ma Ere, mited Fire Amro Circuit) A lc alae citcuit posero br a
sons of tou cale vot source that a not power limited (CHF)
Soe OV ECC WISE Fates girs info imalintal Note, Ber NOA ana 45 or cites for
en Go, Eb Xe formu No: er XL and 2048 or ccm fo
oer bi decima ie cain. si foam
Mad LT IS Mali Fre Arm Cireni Pover Limited (PLEA, Power Lied Fire
Spa be a Ol Bh ao dele Th art n Crono. A lire alari eae pote a pone Imi
FRA 0 N O Ue, lem Gry A fre alano cc pcr by a power bmitcd
roi a fin or bron hua, li mu be under
USA it Ie it hard due o ie vaio of an orm Soc: See 760,21 for reine 0 once
otha yivhediomeiibg nti si rin.
Fritagsieoidubm i tg hi
VASTI ing, An secre such a oc bg, thc part
ST ii mem tt i intende pamarile in prior a
Fiber ings, enitibie dprititie FbersEyings) Fiber ochanical rather an an cleettical ation. (CHF)
ge vete any dimension (greater than 08 pan in neil
sie, which are ho TCH 1 be in suspension dir quantilics to Ese (a applied 10 equipment). Equipment that is tascned
produce an sxplosble mute, but mul produce an ignitible OF her seco ata pe baton, (080) (MPI)
bayee fire hazard 1499:$.3.42] (CMP-14) Fixed-in-Place. Mounting mcans of equipment using fasteners.
rb oc No. 1: TH defi and nfomnaiond that teguiro a tool tor eral (625) CHP 2)
wo owe REA 455208, Ryo
And Puch fo ito Crip of Crabs Dom and of Hor, Flameproof +d". pc of protection where the enckosure wil
dn or Pon be Geni  vilhetand an coi sxphvion of a Sammmble mute that
Pr hn The EFAS tens he Oley hi penctatd Ino th tric, tt fring damage and
AT Ringe te ade the exe co lo A Eso WHat AE ignition, Ibroughi any ons or LEA open
Lenin fate ing in the erelotute of an extemal explosive gut aimesphere
Cfo] Note No, 2 Sesion #05 of his Cod pre bev ‘consisting of onc ar merc of the gases ar vapors tor which È is
Chan HE Joust ne n hee. Igoe. Rheims are designed, {CMP19)
present bokeh wl di siopermbon i dhe dein une Anfvrmational Note: See ANSIUL GOVI-L Foon Ammar
Une to mde ie minare, TH cain Wm Noe See x tr ph
Ae an lr Epapnen Pattini by Hoe Erdem “dl
mi St Th una han he Boss
Rc om mca ihe ope not Flmable Anestbtin, Cases or apors, such 3 flicoscnc
in anton DE all der ord tea coc claprapane, divi) cher, ethyl chloride, ethyl ether, and
he apni es ome om Sen. at could fom damme ble ar explosive mire? vib
tans concentration. bn this decano Lhe cone chsiicaion air, oxygen, or reducing gases such as nitrous oxide. (517)
EN i ignibie Shea m4 fre hr ayer, (CMP)
riya tepid plage bid sed bus
@00%3-10-2, Fsplose ewer Prt 107. Censor faves Flexible Bus Sptems An wecrblyof flxble ineubatcd bur,
ee agit Wie Te re yen e ner ED a temo smc ings po
= [Rp
CHB EPA rele veo NEPA Fe Accessori Nol i sour bac cr rice
Fo ines contati Sse A ro tori Aen ste Sen EERO o


--- PAGINA SUCCESSIVA ---

ARTICLE 10 — DEFINITIONS Arment
rth Nok: Bic hse ate cioected sic Fuse, Nonvenied Power, (Nonvenied Power Fuse) A fase ith:
Fora ete Ke ion and we ordinari suemibied ai he cu mtentional provinon fo the escape di are parc liquide, or
Pon ni iio Som te conn Fahl vespe sola parti to the ampere during ek mi
Ea by the andere pa

Flexible nmlsted Bus. A Hexible rectangular conductor with Fuse, Power. (Power Fuse) A verted, nontentod, or controlled
an oscrallinsulation, (MP4) venita ture un in ih the are in cig by being
A mechanical Es composed of a spin. drawn rough soli material, granular Material of lid
mechanam such as a molorgeneraior hai OMCs IE Pose, ened Power (Vemed Power Fuse) A fuse vith provi
mechanical nergy to eloerkal ener». (706) (CMMP.18) son for the espe af are gases, pice, sold parc o tte
Informational Note: There are pins uo tes DI fo surrounding atmosphere during citcuit interruption. (CMP-10)
Loto, ma on deo ai me Fo
Garage. A buiking ox portion of budding in which one oc
doin more sell propelied vis can kept for ine, tale, nora
Footight A border light inallod on or in the stage, (20) rental cep. exbibilion. or demands agen purposes. (OSP A)
{mpi Informational Note: See LLL for wamicriid guage. repic
Forming Shell A structure designod to support a wetaiche tao
linate assembly and intended for mouning in a pool or dor Repat. (Major Repair A building or
fonia structure. (GHD) (CMP-17) pect erg mor delve sth an SR A
Fountain. An omamental ici oc cccralonal wars ech, pat, body ad Ewe ling or grin
feat rom which one of more 40 or arcaras of mater ate 05, andrepalte hat equi aig or rpg of toe motor
discharged, into the at, ching splash pack, ormmental vehicle fuel tank ae performed on motor schickes, including.
pool, display pool, and ccllcciani pooh The dion does asocatoi lor pace red for offices, parking, or showrooms.
fot include drinking vate founiaiit oc vate coolers (880) 130A:3.S 12.1 CSP 19)
{CMPA7) Garage, Minor Repair. (Minor Repair Garage) A building or
Frame, Chania rl and any seid abi tr of metal pons of a bulli ed for Lava” speci and
hicks of 189 mm {0.083 In) or greater, (888) (CPT) minor aormotiee manenance work. ach as engine tincips,
“ i replacement of parts, luk changes {e 8. oil antérecze, rane.
Free Air (n applied fo conductors, Open ar sentilatod co mission fluid, rake Hid, ale conditioning refrigerati), brake
ronment that allow for beat disipation and at low around an cote tepaks, re rotation, and similar toutine maintenance
illo conduct. (CMPS) ork, including the orate look space used for aco,
Fuel Cell. An ckctrochemical sistem that consumes fuel to parking, or showrooms. IAS. 312.2] (CMP-19)
reduce an Chemie cuenta sc coll, the man chermichi General Parpose Cables, Cable Routing Assemblies, and Race.
cteaction used for produdng hectic power & not combustion. ways Cables, cable routing as scmblics and racenass arc sita
Atowever, there may be 1outcer of combustion used within the Die fox somal is abplicalione aid are settare do the
overall coll aisi rm, Rich ar telormen/facl prose mars OMPA] sereni Hiri
Fuel Cell System. The complete aggregate of equipment ud Generating Capacky, Inverter, (loverier Generating Capaciy)
to coment chemical fucl ito sable cloctricky and tspically The sum of paral comacers) hvertor maximum con
uniti of a rome, sac, pony inverter, and SUNS opa Poe e i at Bln ok men
equipment (CMP) Wlovelt amperes, (CMF)
Fuse. An ovcteurtent protective device th a ciceuitopening Generating Sion, A plant whereh close anergy is
fable part hat ix heated and ses by the pasage of Opi, conversion fam some other fo of ny og
cuccent through i. (€MP-H0) chemical, nudcar, solar, wind, mechanical, or isdraulic) by
Corallo Noi: fine comes al the pts ht fon Tica of iitable apparati, (FA)
com of rearing ie eat funi be 5 machine that converts mechani
hay aL be the wp lets deri Hoes ary lo wnneLit ing a ti Ge i" i pa ol a
oe te cal energy into clerical ncegy by meant of a prime
and altemator and/or cet {CHF TS)
ec I Pol conse of a Generator, On-Site Siardby, (On-Ste Standby Geverson) A
An erent precios device that general cones of a Gearon, One Su : Sindy Generion A
conzol module that provides Suen, ciecitonicalie fails producing shee parc an site a he aka suppl
control module that pr Er pone Et Fo an ovens mem peor
re ment daractes energy lo eae ppg, Of Sie pon oni ior
1 an interrupting module that erupts artent when an Fl in that it is not constantly producing power. (685)
rercurreni orate Such fas may or may nor operate na (CMPAS
curteniimibng eon. depending on The pe of Control Grd Bus Kal, A combination of the busbar, the busbar
selec. (CHP 10) support, and the stmutural suspended cotbing grid stom.
Fuse, Exputon, (Exputsion Fuse) sed foe i in which (388) (Cr)
hcp elect oF gare produce by the ate and BORE of Ground, The cath, (HF)
the fuscholder, ice alone or sided by a tpg, EXERT
the are (PAT)
Deb NAN ELECTRA CODE na
Copan NEPA Zor sci ase or NEPA Fr Access iar NOI tr Gilt cr con Bare, or rice
For veunes on le i Gra 0 isa me CRE REE


--- PAGINA SUCCESSIVA ---

cum ARTICLE 100 — DERNITIONS
Ground Fuh. An unintenional ckaricaly conducts  ibrough the operation of a supply deck exces deck.
Comme bereen n ngrounded condueioe of an chal (CHES)
Qual and dhe ml pee ig dan, i
realt and the mally nono rentcar ine odio grouped Gromaing), Conc conning) © ground
eit, EE SRE mets cme. (oe) (nei 0 go
wr nd
Grouna Fauh Clr Inercuper GECD. A device intended
Ground Faun Cire era FCDA 80 Md Grouoded, Functionalla (Fuortiomally Groundedì A sue
Cell dr portion thet within an tabbed period al ame Hat bas ati let ground eee for persion pupo:
mn aan fault aumenti cx the salucs omic for = at is mt sll: gman, CHF
dela: erty toma Kot: fungal, roi sic oi
i tn ft gh tom eo nerd da
rl Ss. See CL 8, Sd fr Cond Cnn
mi ot he mai SA Keto re ero hae ele fui pate nda
i Sen A Fi Ean mes i end
ey he pd ern de minded lene” lie” ad” del
ts I Grounded, Solty, Sli Ground) Conc to rod
GroundEai Cir Inermupies, Special Purpose SPGECH. ©
Group Felt Circ Ines, Spel pens SPOFCO, oman deco. CFR
intended Er the detection of ground curtenis, eh In Groumdea Conduciar, A ssc or cial conducior that is
cs sith volge to ARATE hah Bf sola. fk anc. ricntionali outed (NPA
ome lo plant a cel edi an palin vo Aug cy grog
cabot period oft shen aground: cunt ox Jerre tre eR a ed
mi oe: See LL 95 aie of pres fr
Sie Peroe Coed Cored boomers 6 Wormin  Oroumded Spe, [mpedma (pede Groundsd
AE EL GN, syvem) An clerianl me tht ir grounded by ic onal
poh Connecting the pie neutral pov 10 ground teh an
impodance dere HF
Groat Fun Carrom Pu n cleericaly combine patti a gip EGO a
Fiom de pali of a ground Gli ona meng es gh Grounding Condor, Eguipmem (£60), (Equpmen
fe oon Glion og gh God Copter, Erra (896) Spine
Ca ps
irs Cornering metal par of equipment soe an the
wee em groundel conductor or 10 he grounding decade
ni Note Exif gtk remap Co
io co Te oo Meta
TT Ch Ly FE FD ibat the —
ra te acl nh op od io mi i ees oi
a mg Wehr os se deci y
En Seat sain ie guai fom Nite Ko 2: See 240.18 For a Ibi of sic
er e caper grounding aonduciors,
Grouns an Cure Pata, Estective (Estective Ground Fauh Grounding Cond, fmpedance, dimpedance Growing
Corre Pato An Mientonali: ace byimpadanee | Com Conducta ht connect the mat, DEE
rita loci path desgnol and aA 10 Cary POM to the impolanee de n an Mmpodaree ced
aumen during ground ul event From the point of a ground TET. (CHP)
faolton a mena matera to he ct sappi source Sot Grong Elecirode. A conducting abet trough which a
lites the operation al he ore Fe device ne cmon to sarà aS COMPA
groandiaaltdelecio, (MF) °
Grom Doser orp, de GFDL A device hat Som ET or e cao
roms pci for Fo, Silo by Arts a growing lod ot 0 pi an to rou Scone
Tei 600) har :
Grouped Cables or conductori postioned afar 10 one
fo Nor UL al Saramago Porri Guont: anh bu Sona comici in coh bes. 0
ume ml ima os Fane fo Corns eh
piicteychaliogu eT hontai CS
yim fo etme Guarda, Cover, sic, fend, eros, ox thre
im GE yl: protcetol by means oi suitable cover, casino, barrio rallo
Groton Prosa of Equipe PE A quan RO MRS dm RTE Melia ci
raed 10 provide pica ocr from danaging approach a contact peso ojos to a pak of danger
nesta fk am by ppg co 2 em CHF
i mea io open an opted Sao o de al: Gue Qoom An accomodation combining ing sep
tod cle This protection prose a ine eek br STR, 0 Senet Coe he
Han oe Tepe 10 prote Soar form damage 3. and cage partment
wa Saro. ——
Comma HET rss cr NEPA Fr, cess df For a cour, ric
er De rr Rn


--- PAGINA SUCCESSIVA ---

ATi 100 —DEFINITIONS carmen
Gue Sube, Aa commotion with ox moce condos Heatiog Eqlpmen. Any equipment tha è ussd for heating
epg a comparare Mir alia one Parona on bea ary a de Miele
me in, ST Wg Teg aiar Fo ARS 0]
and storage facies. (CMP) Heating Panel. A complete assembly provided with a junction
Goer, Met sunny Me Avy Gute) sock metal box ara eng Jeni Conduit for como 194 ah
vier en rep Alpe oR CETO)
eT peas, i and STA Hein Pane Set rigid of nondigid astembly provided with
points of wiring systems. de png or remo non beating leads or a terminal junction assembly identified as
Fi avere fon se grt chet omen able i ’ I
le mean e o POSE eco) WCE, SPIE biog stable for connection 0a wig sie (CM)
ore pes hci oe ben sleds Hepa Syn A complete om soo af compone
comple arie CAPA) cient feng Ase. hoibea e chet
te ota (Somme Aun Gue sav Rate erm oie sion vee ion
amen te lone sca lo tupplemeni POX NE and Bing, (1) (CSA)
Seng spaces a Te centers. hon cont. Sogo, Hest Syn, impede. d'mpedance esta Sem) A
SREETLINTINT A PO Hero re Impede peter Seni re) e
ot bas ing 1 formale over: oo and protect ot co a ca e a 2
ing chanical wires, cable, and busbars, The endosure is cloment, by causing current 1o flow through such objects by
designed for conductors to be laid or set in phe aller he direct connection to an ac lage sure from an isobiing
Cos hove been a ara compie CE ae Ts
o te ea omc expe ope
J Room. A com in a bulding for lsing, sce porci compo!
En E conii. Du lata en Too lobe beate CMP 17)
Ear ge ar LL spacca and Simile a. tation pen, Inacio. (duc Hest Sym) A
Cura ect in a pipeline lly
Handbote Enclosure. An enclosure for usc in underground ifducing current in the pipeline ac vessel wall from an external
systems, provided with an open or closed bottom, and sed to iSObied ac fiekd source. (CMPI7)
em coach IN, bui io! en Er Th purpose of emting Sym, Skin Eff, (Sin Efe ating Syme) A
installing, operating. or maintaining equipment or WEIN OF system in which heat is generated on the inner surface of a
[aki pel ht RR A lo he
Hard Current, For a given set of connections in an isolated Surface to be heated.
powcr system, the total current that mould Sow through a low Tiformational Note: Typiealh. an cheetricaly invoked ovo
Tomei ee noni cue Toon and Ke fk had nt ovis
CE aigtoma, 1593 832) 017) (OPA E a ey nt act hs me
Ht Carew, oi tod Gur) The bamed Sate
Ca a Ca pee i
connected cxcept the line isolation monitor. 199883321] Hermetic Refrigerant MotarCompressor. A combination
coment exe i orca von both of when are
oii sare boasi wal vce ho dm
Manor Hint Cu The bam coment of the line isola: ono oman ee ee (CAT)
{on ioe alone 1953525 HS CR Hone Any shatry, hatchras, well hole, o te vertical
ata! lant Gar. The baad cucu of a given bolisd sparing ores AA ati sor 5+ doris i
oe vas ali dic lg So von monto Sea) oe KARI
conncted. 199:3 57251 (317) (CHP 15) Hospital, A building or portion theccof used on a 24hour
tender, Tanner: metal cen fo cecal conductors, bb co ete sk prt
Pg ao i pel cole di a eco Cy foto me AGE HO 1 CNF)
tL dread
condos From a hun sente to de flow cells HOSE, Lo ES TS ile ami
Tem ath a cL.) (CHIR
ests Care Euciien_Bukiogs, pine of bid. ox
So ee a EH dental ote Hyaomasiage Baum prema milled pt
nursing, obstetrical, or surgical care È provided. 199:5..75|  £99Ppod with a codrculating piping system, pump, and asso:
es tame die ah en eB ST
ABET upon ror a CART
onan Ko: Exp of hel cure ci ioc °
lop So Eth EHS nat (an ppt 10 sqipmen. Kecognizable as suitable
ee tion we boners apple
jr Ry oe do vere debe por co poe
Health Care Faciliy's Governing Body. The person or persons MERE (MP1)
vo base lho EF operato ola formalina Soi Sine canzio nf na to determine site
ime te rete pb fo en ee smn dee


--- PAGINA SUCCESSIVA ---

arms ARTICLE 10 DEFINITIONS
applic cde mab. ba «cuted cing bore Pt 1. Sf, Bega, for information  in euro.
Rig being i Tepes en pon men To bat na eco eon a
PERE pe ay Jat
tn Sigh From (Wisin Sigh From) (Wittin Sigh). Equipment Information Technol mem Room. A room win he
Co oe an 19 in ONTO dani hom onan bro bom ses dai ea de
other equipment Isin ii fo tha other quip, (CMP) intonnation technology equipment. 175533151 (CHF 12
rot ote: Ser 1020 For aio nation Innerduct, A noninetallic rocovay places hin a arg race.
Increase Safety “e”, ype of protoction applica to cketriaal 28. (CMP.I)
coupe that docs no produ ars or sparsi nanna se. sulted Bus Pipe (BP). A cyindeical solid or oll condur.
ict and nde specified abnonmal conditions, in which addi. toc ail a solid insularion sister, having condone grading
onal measures ate apple to gie neccascd sccuriy agaitei Lage and grounding layer Imbodaod 1 the ulation and
the possibili di excerave Empat and ol he occurience pi Na an overall covering OF Ping of metalle
fades and spac. COUP) arial (SP In abo eles to as alan covered Conductor
It Note Sec ANSI/LL 60099, Eto impos (10). CPR)
pn nny rome ey load med Bus Pipe System. An asscinbly tht includes bus
inorain. pipe, Connector, hinge, mourning ele. and other
cussion Heng (nduction Meting) (Induction Welding, ings and acessories. (CMPS)
The beating. melting. oc welling of nominally conductite  Loaing End. An inubtor designed to cleci alby insulate
material duc to its own 128 losscs whon the material & PRIA ernia arl condo ape À
ina vaying elecmramagnetie Bela (85) (CMPAZI he enlot a fat conductor able (Espo FC. (24) (NPA)
Indusiriai Contro! Panel. An ascrbly of ten ac imore compo. rac Mou The sporting mode lof paves produgion
ent consising fone di the folowing (1) power Bross SEC SF miecoge dl that operate in parallc] with and are
ng of on ine (1) pone circuit CI al delbering ancy 10 an che power produzion
components onl. such as motor controler, oweckad ras Ga distribution netsock. or thee LSC RCT RES
Fed deconnoci aAche. and circuit break (2 coral
Slt Components Only. ih a ph Beko pilot Eh, oabdonl Note: etch de an pero htc of
selector slches, (mess, Aches, and control ays (1 3 PU Mewiihe aes AM of cup Sah icra
Br Toce eten
Components, Yih ateociatal WIA and ICA, ate mon: rect Rating. The highest current at cae solage that
do comand win an ite of med on a SEPE Rain, Thc bhe cunt a tod lage to
subpancl (CHIT) pS,
ai Note The infil conii pel doe net Worm No: Eqn iment esp nreiat
AEE oi ire. ihc thn ud Ev ur hve fo inn ug a id
Industrial Toll, Supervista. (Superised Induswial be Rh cerns Ka
nsullation) The industrial potions of a acl where al of Imergatem Bonding Termination (BT), A device that
the tollowing conditions are hee provilcra imeans of comecting nies banding conduce:
(1) Conditions cf maintenance and enginceting suporvision ore for aonimanicatione sere to the rounding elo
ensure at only qualiicd persons moni and service Selen. (CMP.16)
the seem ii
nisi Safety <1". Type of proton whee any spack 0
tn The promises wing cm bas 200 KV or greater of canal ife is incapabie of fing ignition ot a ne sE
load eed in industrial proces), manutacthr ng ass  gammable or come material IN alt under prescribed ieri
x bond, as coi in accordance wih Ack sin. Animale or cous
© The premier has a lean one ser Gr ecder that de c
more than 190 sls to ground and more than 3 cok (oral Note: Sce ANSI/UL 218. Jura uf Appr
Pie phase an al Sunt ts fr er Quai TT an DE Bin ©
Ford Gf Toor and ASSUCL NASL Fi
This detinition exces installations in buildings Wes by gio — Fas 11 Fens Aston Taane Soy 5
the industrial facility tor oc, warchouses, Frage. machine foraditnaliniorana ot
Shope and fect atonal cli hare nolan Og parti a
the industrial pla. substation, of outta center, (24m) Udnseal Safe Apparame, Apparatus in which ll he cic
the ind ace inimical ale (CNP)
orm Note No. L See ASULL 918. htm Safe
Information Technology Equpmen (TE). Equipment and ppuse and Moena LS DOLL in Cin TIE uf
spies ato 4000 sole oc se realy found in tices or QA" GL MEAL LS Ll ANS
hee ince cables and dat cnsironinenis cls LL GOL, ene mrs Pat TL Egon nto
fled as diary cations tho ae (eed lor eatin and Feet Sao oon Bib
imanpublion a dala ic video, and ar Ts Mat ate yt oe A (20501, Bre
Soman sn and do not proces mm SEE NES SATS Eel yo
cabin circus. (CPT Troe ten = Pat È amine Sapo esha me
fob Noe: Ser UL O01, bomen Tetris tion
en 0 = dBi CLG
i infec and Cotton Aid Emacs
Er ONAL ELECTRA CODE Se
Copri HEPA. rsh sue cr NEPA Frog Access arn NOI or GG cosa or gnrteg
For ines contati Sse A ro tori Aen 15 Sen EERO o


--- PAGINA SUCCESSIVA ---

ARTKLE 10 — DEFINITIONS army
ically Safe Circuit. A ect in which any spack o her. Inverter Oulton Grp Circuit, Conductor between the
mal ct lr capable of caing ion of a Gee of flan maids or standalone Iter ana ladon equipment
able o comic material in an under preseribed teri O78) (OH 1S)
conditions. (CMP 4) Urigation Machine, An clociricall drisen or controlled

mato Note: See ANSIZLL 98. fanned of Ape. maine, with one o more. motors, not band. porable. and
sua md Apr eC dH Drier sod primarily rapes an distribute maior for agoenliaral
et ri ws ee pra lo po
tens = Pon dl: Front Prata bts i
feats on Machine, Center Pot (Cenk Pivot pon
Iona Safe Crests, Different. (Different kal Saw a coral pivot ati ego align dh Co
Safe Cheat Unrinsicaly sic arent i whch the possi round a central poe and empl aligmeni sn
interconncations have not been maluated and identified as fac de "inciidual (675) CPT)
intemal sale. (CSUP.) sand Mode, The operating mode for poet producion
fmol Note: See ANSI/UL 913. gamely Sf App. Rupert or miccogrids hat sll sncrgy lo be supplied to
fey dana son ANY din tc ha ar disconnecial from an couric pve producion
Horm of oy germ ad ASSL GRAAL Fis and distribution newark oc othe primary power so
Annie — Par di bongo Pranaon i start sR AY
ocadelitonalinformation Inlated {as applied 10 location). Not readily acessible to
neal Safe Sym. An, averi of icone po aks pra moana e sc acd CHF 1
Intl); safe appara, sone apparatut, and crc ee on ae
Decimal pas of mam tg be ed Boe Sy, cm comping at obi man
es In mc cassie) cans are inisicalls sie LC Great comduciore, 199353] (IT) (C511
. imation Transformer. A transom of the muliple.inding
re em aco wg poses ep
tote poe han cated, that inductiveb' couples is ungrounded secondary wind.
for otc No 2. Ser ASSL 918, Momus Sf ng th, unde icodee sme ha enrgees 1s Primary
Again qnd Ana Agp o or Myre! a Pao
Quo Ft ings Lom ALL Go reg, 1993394] (317) (CNIPA)
nae href Pat dio iguparri Prien Tine Sicha, An aca with a sink and permanent provisions for
fring ST gu FE SR RA A
Fos hme wf Hef rd mn PE NG
on Equipment or materials 0 ich has boe attached a
i Sir ASUS ARP 2050, por Seon Menti ang marker an on at
na E lr gre JUG on concer wk procs vation, tat mialraine periodle
Un een Pen teme ol on of roan at bed equipment a nater ale
anti by bore abel he manufacturer indicate: compliance
: oy
Invasive Procedure, Any procedure that pencirates the protcc- oii appropriate standards or performance in a speciied
Br et]
BL pie i
she). ot induced in ti cacgony are placement of perielio biomed Noes bgt pani ft re
ral intravenous needles or catheters weed to administer fluids the waipleie bbe to the product, the wimcte Label aby
and/or medications, gastrei ntestil endoscopics (Le. sigma appear pn the vaibalesi anit container in a hic the prodot i
Aoscopicì, insetion SF wnt aatbeier, an older Similar E
rococo | 19923491) (517 (CLP uo . a
area, An atca containing oc designed to comain a
Inverter, Equipment that changes de 102€. [CHP Anal tray, clothes was, coi ite CHP
vere, Laveractive, Gateracive rier) iver cpr Corre eto [ne mapier (LCD. A dvi pros
avg he capably to operate onl in ITA mode. do ina pow ppl cod or cod mi tht Sense leakage
[Et Current Bowing bepween or from the cord conductors ant
Inverter, Maimode, (Matimode Invern) Imes coup. iniermip the cect at a predeommined bye of lealage
mem capable oF operating In both imerathe and ad Sum (440) (HPAL)
modes. oa LED Sign mination System. A complete lighting tc oc
favre, Standalone, (Standalone mre) es op: 1 Sg and oun Ighing conditing of igmiing
I in combs pa ol nd mode, hoe (10) ly mc, pon tl, She
hie
series [npai Cri, Conductor: commie to the de input Legal Required Standby Systems. Those stor conic
praca PO Me conica e gal sega sani uni pal dale
: federal, ot oe cols or 13 any once agere ha
Inverter Output Circuit, Conductors conneatcd to the jurisdiction. These syste meare intended to amomatically supply
Soup of shes (C3315)
destin NAT LETRA CO 0
Coen EPA rex e ce FETA Free Accessori Nol ci sours cr rice
ARE Ei das pA Te


--- PAGINA SUCCESSIVA ---

aurea ARTICLE in pero
pone to selected loads (other hanthorc dss merges sevice ness appropriate signa andar or has been
Geol in the cons allure of the normal tee (CMPS) te ah Int tal tor pind puspore. (CPD)
Ure safety Branch. A soci ol fers and branch cc owe] Nine: The van odin bd cus
prior Toit pat obey pit po rt
Fc Lt ee mela et
ore po oes by oo ire er es dat de nr Te Ee
[ep ty om en ten LSE RE ke
pati bust pao.
TD i Pane, eR components. (CHIA)
ems oma È listing steams Losd Management, The process iia neney nage
einai mesdeatorintalatonin abo a eh Fe a Ha try ake) ot oa Sper)
i or mole pool. and a Sa og ech Sar op som io a tli by adpisingor Sor the ini
fachiieintion eh hinted Sane wi ar ne
Lighting Assembly, Tarough Wall. (Though) Lghtiog  biormtbnd oe Lid agement sonia sul
cm Ayr Bi ep rhe ro J aasaarat BENE
Bo Eg ls pool og DE ot. Lome me i
cation, Anesthetizing, (Anesbetiog Location) Any pace
conned grap af componcnis scparatod by the pool wall. (Ji facility that fas ben deggratcà for the adininitration
(6a (CUPI of ans Ilammable or nonflaminabbe inbalton anesheric agent
Lighting Outlet. Anoule intended os the hc connoction  duchg examination o treatment. including dhe dee of Rich
ola rdf nae. oP agenti lor elo analgeria, (317) CAF 15
Track. (Track Lighting A manufactured ascemble Location, Anesthetiziog, Flammable. (Flammable Anevibetiziog
en n bp ad HE Nara ital SSE  LotaBon) Any arca of a thai bas been, Avg) i
da ey he wae vo orn ob inca for th. whist of any Tomas aon
aL ely ed a do can be ams mi oma euro common on seo
de Sent O CND
ite Care Facility. A building o portion a a building od Loca Damp. (Damp Location) Locations proce om
ona 22 ho bts for th housing of tour of more pron who eather and not WRC lo sattiration with Mater or other
are incapable of scll'prescevation boca lee of age: physical Bini. liquids but subject to moderate degrees of moisture. (CNP)
Eto cor ine a en li ee Ee ony
nd or fen ma mtd So Emitter
aa ST oh oi 5 ET es Eee ia
im Fisting Vossaton. A powrsondlared apparatus AT degree. Bo Sh ci oe
om pat ong de vapore et Soe
os pom ira dona nea) peta ioe. Location, Dry. (Dry action) A location no normally rb
ou appare di ey ae or ones to amp or etneo A location Chest ai de (may be
Brecin det 18832 ACEA en Sie lo apres of wees in he aiar ol 3
Bing under Conai atto MEN
roo Note: See SEP 38 See pr ey etn
et tm ra See EES Location Remele. (Remote Location) A location, other bana
mo Lato pene of [tan sek, where a produzion it
Line Isolation Monitor, A test instrwsnent designed to continu: Tilinedor recorded, (330) (CMP-18)
ally choc te balanced and malar anpedance Rom Cath Location Wel. (Wei Location) A location that sno mace
{ne ofan mandati onion oS mile Sn hor
rn ro micio ee Sh to the deal STE vet
age curens hazard 199183561 (17) (CMP.15) {1 bs torsion mtb vate ancl
Liquid Immerson “o”. ype ol protcaion nere ckarial | Undetgiound
mem ee nonin Waa so duran aphorism in hice contact i the
Ft RE Ce o outide he poy
close annotated Cop fe
[ES — mo No: ck wedi rc gn cami ol a
a Saupe Fein Lt rin ot. EE A
tol information, Location, Wel Procedure. {Wel Procedure Location) The arca
Lisa. Equine, marcas, oc services nck in a It Aa pape care pac when proce ese as
publ od De an ooganinaon dal ls scp tone ant ho ete cn whe pat pe
re pobim hapepto i TA dt dd sor
oe mai pono impection of proditiion oi rch coher of meh soni me 10 e pen ot
{sa to mate ox pedali coat rare ah 1 WT AE Ar
ve ot cure oe ape testo
1046 [Ep
Coma HEA or ace a PA rg cesar or sar couric, rics
BE ay wn weeny


--- PAGINA SUCCESSIVA ---

ARTICLE 1 — DEFINITO NS iaTERI
sft Nog: Rein ow ewstors and im: Machine Room and Control Room Remote, (Remote Machine
dental silloge dl lat do ihn he adore be Room and Control Room) A machine or ar control rm
ive that ls not attacher lo he outsde perimaser of surface of e

Locauona, Hazardous (Classified). IHisrardons (Classified) als, CONG. e Mor of the bosa. (920 (CMTE)
Locationai Locations nbere dite or explorion haart might bacteria (Industrial Macine), (Industrial Machi
exist due to flammable gases, (bmmable liquid-produccd gry; A poneraleiven machine {or a group of machines work.
sapori, combistble liquib-produce por combistble {ag together ina coordinated manic. net portable by hand
dusts, combustible ber /ilsings, or ignitible Tiberszibings. while nocking that i used to process material by cutting: forme
ur “ng: reseed thermal or eptical techniaues: lamina:
Locations, Once. (Unciamifiead Locations) Locations 190 GE 3 Combinallon of thie proses. It fan Include
determined tobe neither Class | Division 1: Class I, Division 7; 2ssodiatod equipment used to transfer material or tooling.
Zone Zone I: Zone 2 Class I, Division È: Clase IL Divison 2 including fixtures, to ascemble/dimmemble, to inspect or tos,
Cla 1, Division 1s Case 1. Dion Zone 20 Zone 28 0 10 package. The assocatod cbenical equpmen, including
Zone 22; nor any combination thercal. (UMPA 4) the logic concoct) and asociated soloware or logic together
d ct the machine action, and ern. are considered ar part
Long Time Rating cain based on an operating interval of OF the industrial machine. (COTE)
5 minutes of longer. (060) (MP2) Machinery Space. A spac inside or outside the hostway, inten
Long Time Rating Sindy Pore, A cating but on an dello be Seti Vidi 1 milo a Dodi ne tnt
operating ea of 3 inc at longer (SIT C1) conans he vac, dumimalier, platform AM, of SAN
I Charl coipment and could a contain equipment ured
Londspeaker (Speaker, Equipment dha conser an acek™ geciy in connection with the clvator, dumber, platform
16€ sigma nto ah acs signal (0104 (CSIFAZI {lls connection wit oe O
Lor auge Conc Asolage vot SANE LN tc et Cop Spe, mt, Gere ic
ing values: ery Space od Control Space) A machinery space of control
01) 13 so 9 for sinusoidal ac Spake fat no: wi the boivay. machine coora, se control
(2) 21.2 volts peak for nonsinusidal ac vom and tut i noi attached 1 he outide perimener of
3) 3 volts or continuo de surface of the alla clin, ar floor of the hoistway. (620
(1) 12.4 sols peak for de that isimicrmuapiod ata arcof 010 ETRY
Pa
Mr Manafegurea Home. A structure, taieportable in one oc
(60) (EMP) more sections, which in the traveling mode is 2.4 m {A ft) or
Low Votage Suspended Celling Power Distribution System. A more I ult or 322 Mm (ANTO Or ore ia Fog, of when,
orto thai sek ot a support ora nied cling rusiaceand ered on sic lr 2077 m7 (S20 1 or more È bulli an a
consis of a biusbar and busbar support stem to distribute pecmancnt chassis andis designed tobe used asa dwelling wis
ponce to tiation equipment Supp br a Che: 2 powct br imihout a permanent foundation, nbeibor or ot connected
Conon (9031 mr to the WIV: and includes Plarbing eating ale Smita
vine, A complete lighting unit coming of a light ing. and lcci) seme contained therein. The term
Luminaite, A complete Ighting unit consi of a light PS de ae late a mea le tore Toc ol
source such asa lamp of Amps gps wa doc parts
designed to position the light saree aed connec it to de Paragraph xp dhe size coquivements and at expect 1
signed to prion the ght sures and connec lt to die EE the manulaciuree voluniacile es a certibeation
Enc SPB ballati o aoa the Agli. A laapholder required by he regulatory agen, Calculation ued 0 deter
fours of he halle or to del mine The number of squate merci: (siate ot) in a suture
arc ase on the ruttures exterior dimensions and include
Luminaice, Dry-Nice. (DryNiche Luminaie) A luminare all espandabl coome cabinets, and other projections conta.
intended for insalbiion in dhe floor or val of a pool. spa. or ing. [MEO space but do Ilias bay indo
fountani in a niche that ls scaled again the ony of nata ISGL ZAZIONE
(6AM (CMRI) Informational Note No. L Unless odierne indicted dle tenn
Luminsire, Notice. (No.Nihe Lumionisel A luminaire ib er lute dasa how: nt sso pa
intended for installation above or below the water without a (rai.
niche, (64) MET) orm Keo 2: Ber th ible big oe for
Come, Werbiche, (WerNihe Lumb) A luminaice bono em force pt
intended for installation Ina fon shell unten a pont Lifocmalisnal Note No. & Ser 28 CFR Pan 280, Marat
a Arocha sl be som pletcly Ho Cima tr od Sali Sendo of it Fant Ba man
Sirona i eater: (0) (CMP Tigo d'a rwbpo 5 Rm a #1
Martine Room, An cncloscd machinery space ouside the .
emt, intende for full Dol en, that contain sh clec Mamafactared Wing Sytem. A er containing component
cal Acting machine or the fara machine. The roam Pars that arc asembled in dx process of manufacure and
a or oe le machine Cannot be inspertea at th. building site im damage oc
could au Coma electrical anor mechanical equipment Cam be specie at the building site imu damage of
fed ea cin wa the cinte or dumbraer destruction to he avembly and wed for the connoction
ca luminaiter, lation. equipment. coninuout plugin. Ne
© EMP busways, and ater desices. (604) (CMP-7)
ES ANAL EET fre
Cooma HEPA Sor sks is cr NEPA rs Access rn NOI or GHG cosa of ICE
Forres Sao i a or AUP ea ste SoA EGO


--- PAGINA SUCCESSIVA ---

pe Artie = DENNTIONS
Mio. A facili: generali on th cont, tht scr and Mogi, An lecinie pose rs capable of operating in
rn ae Ea ae a a Fie ae roe nc e
TE SONS S| OR CR parm ig Ay
ee pend fem eo FO
Maximum Output Power, The maximum power deleted by Jk to disconneci from and conned to a primary saucer
ry ot mm n ei i dest Fo
test conditions. (640) (UMP-1Z) A operat and mode. (MP4)
oma 858 1357, NR Sart
ert Se i i pct can cd J a
en peg ey en ke ELAN gi
Moma Ou Fore, The mas § mie average QUA Spiker eg Cnt, B52 ia
ee JOA tf
a es pena LS Frain Ser
per
Moma ols The gears discs bn puonial Sap SR Spake dren abe
re PRE pico a Wg Te Le SY STS
[rath Sm Te eg se by
Maximum Water Level, The highest level that water can reach per hi o
before it pills out. BHD (CMP AT) Microgrid, Heath Care (Health Care Mirogrid Sysiem).
a pt Ei he
Medical Office. A buikling oc part thereof in which the flow: distribute energy «eure within carl defined boundaries
pis Aurora og roaneg pin ral deed hes
US of iH
performed under the continuous supervisiona a moli icrogrid Control System (MESH A structures control sem
cn FATT) to mst sad cnn or 1 Manager META Span. Tai fo ie
Fo rio omarion anno on EE own
es ee oa evr Soe Ct oh bi sand re
Sori ir minor psd a ar bart of
entrar Eom, teripocary cco ol for the A Tm A py
Menten face are Sr wed fre oe
a aT oT ree trees Die BUD) doe thai vlna
Ear Mog Iuereonneti Die MID) dec that lca
tion of oversprav, (CMP 131 i para
; fc Ey
Comat Nos So NEDA 38, Srl fn Sry OST ix, Equipment uscd to combine and el match a mult
tions en Uh om motion and use of amemibrane ex lesares pliciy of clectronic nal, such as from microphones, clec-
FA a meh
er i 10 pp lo pens Mobile, X-ray equipment mio on a permanent fu: with
rm ig meer a ratir i monag Al «oRinE di ndiei
{A messenger with cngs and mds for conductor i
pali Mobile Home A fase —
© SPESE ager mt dime being rien for Sambal os n me al are bi n
Jp od ea) be tc ata ig all
fy TEE al able [pith eR bi
Fave SIR go a Ws De. panne. gl
rig, oh soot tae et Bec
et os. CY
don Ufo rasato nal Note: Unlis exberaive indicated. (vc Ler work
Messenger Wire (eeoges A site ht 5 along sail cr dont vn LOLA sett soso + robe bore
Tigra Nh a cable OF FOIE 10 provide medianial bak degne for th accammodaion of one mobile home
support for the cable or conductor, (MPA) elia aces othr of ctor Fo te escluse ue ci
Metal Shield Connections.  Mcans of connection for flat its occupants. (55M (CMP-7)
es TILT al veo ce pet cogs pret ft ix tue)
Ee at mh om Mle Home Park cogs pret of ho +
ose doris ain e the seemed
pig biel RES CN (CS
ron FR.


--- PAGINA SUCCESSIVA ---

ADE 100 — DEFINITION ciurma
Mode, AC. (AC Mogul) A complete, emvtronimenially  inioracise services sgmk and provados isolaion betwecn ite
Ponca nit onan of sole Celle Inter, ana gie Artwork owes and the FAAS agri eleva, These devices
Componenti designed poo ae pone O90 ACMPAÎ dite conan pria and er econ, (101
Mogu Systm, AC. AC Module Sym) An abl al sc Near Terminal A doves that convert netvock provided
cs, Mein ton, ca, nd I tate gm (optical, cA 0 wie Ino component signal
dee and deine 3 Ae GM HPA Eg selce, ai, Hk. data mes ope and niet
Ee and Wore Sneek A oh The rc
Momentary Rain. A cain ban an oping eral 2 A ep
ros x ss Bo ACMP-L oo ns ned to 3 comics
Momentary Rating (Micdimam Power), A calng cd on an egy Contacts, The comduzios connec 10 ile nl
rE EEE EE (TI hpi one Canto een Ame
aad normal conditions. (UMP-5)
Moni, An ccd tron means to bueno, record, pena Paini, Tot
Monia, An hci a coroners to diene, coord, Neural Po. The common point on a meconnoction in a
or ts the operator oe condo FW CEE over co mapa ni on a Angioino, Satie Mist
Cent song plate prion fs Lohse della iter
Monopote Got, An lc sist of a PV i tbe ows BONN OF BORE chen en HPD
two conductors in the output circuit, one positive (+) and anc. [nforabational Nowe: Au the neutral pint of the sys. the
one. 0 (CNF) hd vg Het al CE has
No dre ite dia A Ere
Monash. Overhead track and hit sy for oni cmt:
dal around the boatvatd or mati and launching boats etd pit tugs
jr) Nonmiomatc Reguiing human intervention to perfonn a
Tuncton (1
[PR Any place beso a boat ———
frites Nenincentine Chal, A cect, other than tH sting, in
Motion iene Si Cio Shey bag sop SCA 253 gel ci pects iid
hg Si eet sods re og Sg Coan SLE SEL ce
ESR coin of ing he Ran gar sii
conructed, pormancnis altered designated, or apprese tor EEC or SCO © TRE DE
he pun di moon ue o con rodcion (590
COMPA tnt Ko Soc ASSULL 121201 Norio Farov
Ens ei Fd an dS ii
Motor Control Comer, An scot onc oc orc nchied SEE Hat hooey Tose id
Caio having a san Cou bs and piincipally Soma intro
ng mckor control units. (MFA 1) Norimendive Component. A component basin conta oc
Motor Fori Dispensing Fast. Tot pion of a property Making oc Issn a incendi Che and he ontacing
hee or oa oe dispnea ach ap. eh ov Ete tL component + Spal
nt into th fuel tank of motor Scio or marine alt of of gti the speaicd Mlamimabe ab-sc of vapor-ic
Toppan container, including all Spine wrt In Mie, The outing of ih component ns nod to
conncelonibecenath TOADS 11] E010 fir Maiale altosphere dr comizio an exion
formative] Note Sev SLLL with sespea i cha rial whing mean
snd Wh. Sha tn Ke Ss SSL 1201 Noto favor
na ran, Lo o frien I ATR mT
la ia TE mm ts ove riod
Multi Circuit Cable Outlet Enclosure, An cnclosure containing information.
pra 0 More mal ite plug, eae of bo. (49 Nonincendive Equipment Eps bang csc
pretty Vane aus mig og A ged
Monts Act, sac, hs, o ectaning ac ono of causing lion ofa pected Tanabe se
Hage ia aca ant ings oF be cine Bove SR
Bone of mace espace for he. pupose of opin
Ponce vo atom pen. (FAY pr ——
Ens ei Fd an dS ii
acl, An cocks housing te alternato and ole pac eno E Hat hooey Tose id
oa vin tutine (04 CSA ioni
Nec Tubing, lcricdichace Uusinous bing including Norinndive Fed Wing, Wing that ene ar Fates an
cold cathott luminous Tub, hat anWaGurc inh equipment enclosure and. inder notimal operate condor
acount re. orto asc. Aion of di PRET ot Copa due 19 tego etna
iuting. aun Ming Ser omits lamenta or wt Slice of faking he amie gas ar, pr o e doa
tormeand od wit vt us inet gave (000) HF.) mune. Nonnal operation Inches opening, sting, or
Network Interface Oni! (NIU). A device that corwerts a broad grounding the ficld wiring. (CMP)
a oe ‘component ee sob Sica, data, an ttt: HLL 120 Noto Bara»
pnt Ei ork ama nd Cs in
Seb SA ESTO co wn
Conn IEPA Zr ics at cr EPA rg Access alto NI or ta ours rics
Be aman Sara Sem ou Soe weapon


--- PAGINA SUCCESSIVA ---

aura semen im persmions
e112 tm tt, me lind ee. tr cao a marg at le
mi on sion ag lt re
Nonincendive Field Wiring Apparat. Apparati intended to (CMP-15)
ser Hin terre ith tog Home. dg pions kg ton a
Ufocasational Note: Sex ANSUUL [21201 Novinernde Eon. ‘hour basis tor te housing and nuring care ol four or more
Db 00 ogra th SH rl Roshi re
cpg Ble En IE pe Seago mor peer i
ees to a ce the ae ap sh, he Peg, Cade poh, cla cl
open rode pc pro oy OR Tian, ti puck, ion st at
ER mio, dea eg Sc de ls di
Enforasational Note: Eli tron equipbent, che mi /ekeric- an ottice furnishing stem. (CMP-A8)
nt tan, A By Ps omte ita ma be aber
tors within a nonmetallic jacket or an extruded thermoplastic Uno ramo nel Kote: Sexe ANSLUL (21201, Noriserndne Fir
to vlc po by OUT SSL 0, Se so
TE le Seen bk rec uo gi mel ln dl fae dante do
pte, Cost sii. eo acs or Open Ming on mito spt ig cdg
SE SIL BO hn Le at stn, fo ge
ep fl I Ops Dee To cmc ptr eo og
Information. controller, (620) (CMP-12)
Normal/Emergency Power Somrce. A powcr source on the ator, The individual responsible for starting, stoppin
STATE I ER A Op, ee ope or sacs wei
Feta ET o -
Normal is es L pte lit dam gre POCA Ramon Sg bons acli
distances)” Natural or Artificiale Made Shorcliics. An cleva- region of tandition to radio waves hat ls approximately
deny i cel ad shores Ansia gin Tan :
i cig Bh mi bin ln ema tae 40
tse se tL crt es
tr pape ay rt re
Tne Te eek A
eS ae Bre Elin ees i vty sare
BC pa We po, ict Raion, nent Sete op 7 toe St
tion along a cue of stream, shave which a dsc in water surface id of ignition in caploise atmorpheres rom optical radiation
will cause the cher ox sitcam to ovecllow the lowest natural here visble or infrared radiation E incapable of producing
stream bank somewhere in the corresponding reach. Sullicient energy under normal or specifi fault conditions to
Flood Control Bodies of Water: The flood pool maximum. ignite a specific explosive atmosphere. (CMP-14)
best po SL crt bg dere
Nontlood Control Bodics of Water: The floxage casement Long Oporet Reduton. for addition ino rasaion.
bn CdS TS SE pet tn Proctor (reed Opi
fo shh eh es ohana Ope dn, Ported op pr rar Ops
when eonsiructione wiih addtional mechanical protection based an
ric Salon A spose to provide sept en meee pon bd de
ne Sn pe idea a pe e pe AO
ie a of gd pater, vo
on RT


--- PAGINA SUCCESSIVA ---

ARTICLE 10 — DEFINITIONS Arment
oom Nox, Sr ANSU/UL 4007828. Exp him ogo ot: «set in cares clings bee
Ben Fo 28: rer of Pier nt Totton Spies foie prin island coat ra oe a
Long pat Reto 5 Ad o ranieri Lomi Thad he foi fen, ab oe

So pier sions
Optica Sytem With Interlock “op sb”. Type of protection to
Mminimize he ok of ignivon n esplosa atmolphersi fom Overcarrent Protective Device, Branch Circuit, (Branch. Cireni
“pica cao vece Se er inffared roan is confincd Overcurrent Protective Device) A denice capable of providing
{ide apical liber or other transmesion medium wih inter. protection for sev, feeder, and branch Ceauiks and equip,
lock cual provider to relably rede the waco beam ment ove the fll range of evercurtems between its aid
stcengih to se levels thin a spodhet time in ca the current and its intorruptig ath; (CMPAO)
Coenen i and the a Bs COR gure Proce Dice, Caren Ling. (Gora
i Timing Overearreni Eolecive Device) A device that, ahi
afoul Nor: Ser ANSUUL 6007828, Expose hms interrapting aumento În ts currentlimiting age, dacs the
Bom = Part È. Frara of Epugeert eni Fumaraon Spie comment Hoving in the abcd ciculi lo a magnitudo Span
Lena pet Reto for Ad roo Tilly than hat obiainabic in th rame cat If he eee
wrt replaced kh a 1lid oonducter hing comparable irny
‘Optional Standby Systems. Those sisters intended to supply i og compacablc impe.
etc public or Private clue of property whee ile say ane (24M) (NPD)
foes not depend an the perf: of the yer. Tose Overcameni Protecve Device, Sapplemeniary. (Sp plemen-
Spes ate do 0 gpk uke eal of AEC) my Qvercartani Prretie Devieti A Avs eto io
poner to selected loads ckhor automatically or manual. provide inked overcurrent protection for specific applications
was £00 Uiliaton coulpimens such as luminaltes and abpliancer
This limited prosechon 1 in acon to the proicaion prov
Organ, Electronic, (Eecironic Organ) A musical instrument pi pi pi
hg Mud ded i Me sc branch cir bo The beach ci cut over:
tha imitato he sound Curren pracdhe devi. (CNT)
. Overtend Can. struct consisting of borizonal frame
aoa Note et nem chron, an. rs wnt
ee pork, apg el cole pang ae ler
mck pang tpae, Tat support Wp. appliances
can, Pipe (Pipe Oran mul itn ha proc rca and er com, Compose or the purpose of
cot sound by dining prosurinl ak Gabo wind) tough cupping clerical. VAC miemer communicatione, and
piper selecicd via a keghoasel CMP-12) SB cfc lo the spaces. (826) (CMP 15
Organ, Pipe Sounding Apparauis. (Pipe Organ Sounding Apps Overload, Upcration of equipment in execs of normal full
rarus) (Pipe Organ Chamber), The sound-producing part of a load rating, or of a conductor in exes of its ampacit that,
pipe ora. incliding. on cdo, pipes, chimes bella ghe RRs for a lent Eng of tes Souk at
the presucicd ale. ine) producing cunt (howe) damage or dangerous merhcating A fault sich as a short
associated controls, and power couipment. (CMF-12) circuit or ground fault. is not an over bad (MP1)
Gus A point on the wiring stem at which current is ken Packaged Therapeutic Tub or Hidrotherapeutic Tank
to suppl utilzation equipment (CMPA) men Soren A ener here uN Tones DE Va
it Box Hood, boing hid tended to tower a face. CHAE, btaung, and control Spent moumed on a
ate Boxtiond mg dd brendedto di over sie SANE TEA TS SUE, TELL
Ft of an ur box or of a alae for Mhsmounied  Locpec ik Equipment can include pumps ic blower.
viring dove The food docs nat serve to complete the che. hte, Ugh s
er ve
i hoc kal components MAN Ux hood, ch as aad Panelbosrd A sigle panel or group of panc units designed
men plugs, current ape, murge projec doses, direct PA for atenbly in he form of a single ancl ing bos and
in rao oe nk, of viring desc. CFR) autommuc Orercurreni devices, and ouippea wih or MRO
ine Lion, An aragorn of incandescenti lamp, SHIRES for Th. oR of light, Beal, or power Sra
Gate tpg 3 een of ec mer mS Bl o Se
ves a coh ain rai Fos much ss cen or again a wall, partition, or other suppor and
he shape of a bulding or the decoraion of a neh: i
fret Pantiboard, Enclosed, (Enciomd Panelboard) An ss scrblyof
et and connections, ovcrcurreni devices and control a
tpn Cable 10 the Electric Vebicle, An asc consis of ops:
alergui of fiexible EV able and an ceci chide connector Le lh or wikbout sicher or other coprment tll in
{supphing power to the clectrie schicle). (825) (CMP-12) 2 cabinet cutout box, or crebbe suitable for a pane!
application, (CMPS)
‘Ouipui Cable 10 the Primary Pad. A multiconducior, shicided
cable assembly consiting of conductors to carry the high Park Electrical Wiring Symems. All of the cloctrical wiring.
uns cue and an rats Shalt bee he charger Linas, quipment, ad sppurtermncenclte io ctrl
poner converter and the primary pad (828) (CP-12) oe Mps) "lading he mo
Overcurrent Any current in cx of the rtd current of
Cquipmeni or he ampacity of a comactar. {may resuli from
Serko short arci or ground fault (CVF)
es ANAL ELECTORAL COE a
Copri HEPA Fo sce ast cr NEPA rss Access afr Nol or Gite cosa vic
For veunes on le i Gra 0 isa me CRE REE


--- PAGINA SUCCESSIVA ---

awe ARTICLE 10 — DERINITIONS
Park Trailer, A unit hat sil on a single chassis mounted on banal Wot Ths: ys ml bun hh care
ee can, In #7 mo esa tv pean Ee de bai
(N E in the setup mode. (952) (UMP) are ot limited Lo. caaminaion of Liedawnt rooms in Jinks,
Panindiag Motor A pareminding tan inducion oc ol and deal oe Narn bone and oko care
spnchronout motor in one that § arranged for Karting by we Taki 4351031
encrgizing part of its primary (armature) winding and, subse: Gauggory d Space (Category 41 Space in which failure of cquip-
que, cnetgidhg de temainder of hs Winding in one oF mers oc a me dino Hcl o hare a pioskal Enpacs on
More pe, Sard parcrbeing sir, atin mato a O DAT ESA (OR
ri rw a Ar A A fora Nole Thoe yas were fanoerh know as
acd intial an bounty, the semaining tall con be Sapporo Examphrof aot spaces alae, bal ate not
energised both hale thers carcsing equal current (CMP 1) Timid to ait heds work roma 40 Ie ym lboraione,
[RIT reftigirani amnrenatza eR a ae
frie re Hi ind PARLE
Pusenger Trampartation Faciitien Any arca open to the Patient Care Vici A space, within a location Imendog toc
Publ social wih pacers Kapri ch ae an he examination and eset af patients, Suen 18
Spot bu temo, Dams tori stop and hice dra: (8 10 beyond the mim location of the bed, chat ale
ci. ery Slip, mia ation, train station; or pori cad of other device that supports the patient during
Stews arin Pt amination and eames and extending veriall to 23 da
(786 in) abe the How. 1983 3.141] (819) (CMP.18)
Patent Bed Location. The location ot a paticnt decping bed, lo se ro
0 de bed or prone table of a Category | pace, Patieni Equipment Grounding Pant. A jck or terminal
1993318] oni re Reon To ch dg ok
Patieni Care-Relaed Electrical Equipment. Electrical equip. it em in xe tr chats cleciromagnic iniertereni
eni applance that È ee to De ut for diagnontic. Ere, eo Ede io O
Sore a monkoring pape In a patient care vicinity
199:3.8.189] (517) (UMP-18) Performance. pod eh? a pa
Patieni Care Space Category. Any space of a heath care ily doors, consinicicd of scallolding, truss, plattorms, oc simila
whcrci patients are intended to be cxamined oc treated. devices, that i uscd for the presentation of theatrical or musi
1983310] (17) (CMP-18) dal productions or Lor public prescreations. (20) (CSIP.IB)
itl Note No. L The ah tare fatti uerning  Peraaneni Amasement Attraction, A ide device, tet
a palo site STINE Permaneni Amusement Atraclon A cide device, cnteetaino
A tionare ant it that porabilty ar relocation isimpracticable. (522) (CMP.15)
vat] Note Sn 2: Buds offices condor, bes
Permanentiy Inslied Decorative Fonnisina and Reflection
BATAAN RN fy hr e Fools. Those that arc constructor In the ground, on the
sound, of i a bing in such a manne ta the fonia
Gang 1 spare (Cage 11. Space in which failure of cquip.  Sannoi be cadi degmembled for storage, whether of not
mere oc a sem is likely to cause major injury or death of served by cloctical circuits of any nature. These units acc
Paticnts, stall, or visitors. 199.33. 1901 | {CMP-15) primarily constructed foc their acsthetic value and are not
Uformational Note: Thee spaces. fonoetts lana as cita intended toc swimming or wading. (680) (CMP.17)
ew Sil aere utent dhe imm e i
we : i Personnel Protection ysiem (as applied io EVSE) A sytem of
Bote NE ou pA are personnel protection devices and constructional features that
ae mol ke to, spes i cere an me med foal hen used together provide protection against cleric shock
a SRI Sch Of pento nel (2) bz)
mi pe i aoe mo,
iso hace, Manafactura. (dam scored Phase) The phase that
Wa NATI originater at the piasc converter and is not soldly commend
to Elbert the single phase pot elton OPA)
Congr 2 space Cg 2. Space in whic is of ci Feeble pn emer se
Ger dra en È TD io Gio minor injury lo pallone, Phase Conver, An cleirical device that comes sin
all, ocvisitors. 199:3.3.110.2] (CMP-15) phase power to # phase clectric power. (CMI)
imal Note. The siaes wre och bon aa mal ous Phase sos. he shar iis ht
en a rest, fo o ee en a
[oral ouiiging ath Semen Lomo © failed in eke a po
hem a remo: (BAS $421 prise Sen lo
a Nb o ARATE sooo Foy anale coped panche) ihat
CA veto bu can ce decomiort 199810 (17) premi (he Operation of phase had from a Angie pha
pis Coy (185) (CMP.1$)
Tos [UE —
Dogi EPA. ore ve ce VT Fog cess afr Ft oor sours, nrc
a aes aan oo. was ean oe


--- PAGINA SUCCESSIVA ---

shot im —DERINTOSS cum:
phase Converte, Stat, abe Ponte Converte) A descs people ih dime 10 and trova a pool or spa, (Gi
operation eon a hgh phase ppl. (408) (EMP. Pariable. A devier intended tor indoor or outdoor use that is
crs Gel (PV, (Solar Cel The ict Sm] A odo dena cen a
tot Cel (FO Ser Ce Toe bec phoma dared ob ad coed om nln locton 1 cy
Pi A sewctssceendingove esc and sappored ona Bub, Sm pent dni bn riod. (ft
eB rcs possess, Eamets sont
Par Fc. ed Pier) Pr coc en a reer, omy EU SSP) Eqn et rage
Po foe fed Br) ome pre ped an ek
inci odin, hon pe ee PE © i
clero Perle Power Disrioaion Oni. A poe Asoo box
1SO5S1AZI (Cara Eon Por: Diminian On 3 Pare sion fos
pier, Posing, (mtg Pier) Pi designed wih nbn: nna
fir ing Cont Bi i dened ah ae st om
water fidate and rec and Gal sath water level changer Uma Kote See SSULL lth, Poole Pr
1303:3 318.3] (CPT) Pre Eqrpmet. fo in i v
Pipetine. A th of pipe including pumps, valves, flanges, Portable Structures. Units designed to be moved includi
conecying fluids. {CMP-17) tents, trailers, mecks, and similar units. B25) €CMP-15)
mm Acomparimentorchaiber eh ma more air bei on + ea er hic
Some, Acoma SNR Fora Soon A pable sone anal cd an
Fn Ca abe Ring Aven, and Racevara bongs Fag peo proce ae ccs pars
adeguate fire-resistant and how soko producing characteristics gio and completely surrounded by filling material (glass or
and are suitable for use in ducts, plenum, and other spaces quartz powder) to present the ignition of an external exphsite
Point of Entrance. The point within a building at which the Lnforaaio nad Note See ANSI/UL 600995. Explosive Acmosphrm
Eoin of RP The in ln 3 bldg OE rma fr SSCL rs? tr rors
Pos, tonto esc piper designed Power Outlet cdc ye cn
ok Mamta oc leto pron dod yr Out, 3g le dsgsenby map pee copy
used for swimming, wading, immersion, or therapeutic pupo-  watbboure meter mounting means; intended to supply and
Pegi TT Te nei oe pia
nod pos io rable bes, cco hes pack
Pool, [mme rion, (immersion Pool) A pool lor ccremonial or eguired to operate mobile or temporarily installed equipment
he om CUI CR
Poot, Permanently fostalled Swimming, Wading, Immersion. assembly that can include cquipment such as reccpiacles,
and Therapeutic. Permanently Listed Swimming, Wading, circuit brcakers, fuscd switches, ties, wait-hou meters, panel
Immersion, and Therapeutic Pook) Those thal ace conic. {qards, and monitoring icant identifica for marina (66. (05)
Inner od Dp fob) Toe tht a copi bts
J LI Sh
rt ait. shoe Pore Produticn Equipment Ect gencrating ip
i Marea a ae ara sven ule
Posi, Sores ned fe Sin, Wadi, or Immerson EPR by arm dale Glhee daria
{Storable [mmersion Pool). {Storable Bool” Fook installed he: di ing Riad
Rover Sonr Output Conduston, To cco be
Poni Cover Eieemicaliy Open. ea Ope Pool pa
El Cove, cri Opened Bway Opie Pool Cone Sos ON Con, ea
Core aor wpm died or ow
een oer pg. A Guns 2 power supply oid been the
Pot Lin. crcl Rovere Eccl Powered Pool po fi
1 An cecal powers Bt tha provider acs for +g sponded ceiling power disiribution ssc. (88)


--- PAGINA SUCCESSIVA ---

aren ARTRLE 100 — DEANTIONS
Power Supply Cord. An assembly consisting of an attachment otal Note: Sus ANSIA, 122701 Bom fo Pia
plug and a Jeng of flexible cord conned to utlizadion ni ela Se Hama Syms and amanti i onda
pment (C6 Bren Fid adda raion,
Premises. The land and budding: located on dhe users side of | Production Areas Arcs where portable clocurical couipmont
nc pon ol demaraidon bite (he communicatione eres 1818c to implement dhe capture of mages. (530) (EMP-1D)
prosider and the wer. (800) (CMP-16) Projeckr, Nonprofessional. {Nonprofessanal Projector)
Premiser Bowed. Using power provided locally from die Mosc pes of proscion that do not comply wih de defini
re PIO tion of Heriot Paper (500) {CMPIDI
Premises Wiring (Sysem). Interior and exterior wiring. nck  Projecia, Professional Type, (Professional Type Projeciar) A
img power. hung, contro). and geal cHeut varing together 6PE Of projcetor using 2: or Tkmm film dha has minimum
sat all thie cori Farce. Wings, and wiring docs, Hh of % mm (1% in.) and has on cach ole 212 perfora
Podi permanentiy and cemporarily insalicd. The incor one Uors per meter (94 perforatiors per inch). or a pe Wing
bed permanent and mp i equipe Had
QI Win om he service poni cr power source to he FF PIO usci, dia or radiato, (940) (CHE23)
pis Promeniun. The wall and arch that x parates the stage from
12) Wiring from and incuding dhe power source to dhe (he auditorim (15. howe). (920) (CHT)
cust hers there ie po sic point Protection by Eaclorre 1", Tope of protection for crplen
Sach wiring lcs not inclutle wring intemal to appliances, cis aonospheret where clerical equipment i provide sii
luminaires, motors controlicrs motor control ceners, and an cuelorare providing dust gre proc on anda mean (0
similar equipment. (CMP1) limicsunface (emperatares. (C0210)
octal Notes Ponce cts ble co ed oral Note: See ANSUUL (HSL. Eph ima
mere of ala i bon Fei Aa pamela Shere 1 Ki bk ion Poti ty Er 1°
Sace, viver oto Reed rac, o generato farmiizenidy
Pressurized. Th process of sapphing an cuclosurs vidi a Peychiatriebospital, A buikling isc cclusiciy for de parchi.
proteins gas wilh or wihout Continuous flow at aiciont arie care, m a 24-hour bai, of four or more WFAN: (517)
prestare io present che entrance ol combustible dus or init (COP (5)
ble thers Things (MPA) Purged and Pressurized, The process of (1) purging. supplying
Pressurized Enclomare “p". Tope of protection for clecrcal ah ciclowes wth a protcctivo gas a a subcient low and port
pment (hat wx dhe chiue of guanding SEMEL he She presmre (© reduce he concen mation of any flammabl gas
gre of he external atmophere, hich might be ©aplosve,  ortipor initaliy present to an accepiahie evch and (2) pres
ino an cvclorare by maintaining a protein at Girt at surization, Suppl an enelosure md a protcetive gas th or
pressure shove aC of he external amophere MPI) Shout continous flow at sufficiente pressare o prevent (he
Sonrancs ola Mammahile ga or vapor. a combustitie dust. or an
tbl Note: Suv ANSE/LGNO IL, Exh 1
Ss LOR br rr gue ee (OSH
Gondor. orauthlSotc: Sc NA $96. Sandee for get and Pre
presaariaead Room “p". room selume proce ty proses. on Evo fo Eid ube. Al ome
“ion and of lin sac to permic dhe ies of a pron whe
might occupy th room. (CO 14) Parpose Bull. cuson luminaire, a pecs of lighting quip:
RA pope ment, or an cllcct dati consuruaed fora specie purpose and
rm Sos Soc ANS QUILL Bon aim, eno Ci manucured of slab for genera ale, (20
nt, vesta man 0° or. ion ne gare, CMPS)
Aor mom INA a A wh hon . .
raion PV DE Circuit {PV Sym DE Cire, Any de contactor in
imo ut ie of cing te kof plnion. PV source carat. PV string circuits, and PY dedotle comerter
Primary Pad. A dovice external (0 the EV that teasers power HEUTE, (090) (LSP)
sia the cotati coupling a part el'a wiles power EMV py DO Coat, Sear, I
Cat, Sours, (PV Sore Girt) The PY de circuit
em. (65) (C212) Conductors hetacen modules in a FY string Gru, and rom
Primary Sone. An ccc uly or another source of power PV string Gras orde combiner, to de comers, ciccione
ia ace 33 (he main forming and vabilining source in ah coc. Power conericra, or a de PV Sim disconnocting means
tric pover gsm. (CHEN) foo (UMPA)
Prime Mover. The machine that supplics the mechanical PVC Gort, stri. (PV String Girt The PY source circuit
hse poner a generator (HEH) Conductors of one or more series connected FY medics. (50)
he
Process Seal. scat between clectrcal stems and llammabic PO
or Combe proces. Tals where a fmlure coul allow (he PV Module (Module), A complete. crviranmertaly protected
migration of proce [Had into (premier viring vim, unit corsisting of solar cells and odicr componene desgnod 0
(MPI) produce de power, (COMPA)
na SAPO ALELECTI AL CODE ESE
Copan NEPA. Zo ci ie or HEPA Free Access ator RI dr Gilt Gon BRGre, ce vice
Fr cain on lA 8 ceo TO TJ sea me ERE REE


--- PAGINA SUCCESSIVA ---

ARTICLE 10 — DEFINITIONS carni
PY (Photovoltaic) Sysem (BV Sym) (Photovoltaic Sem, Rated Load Carreni (LC) The caste of a hermetic sfc:
The toa) components, circuit and cpuipment up lo ad vant matorcomaressor ling Meh i is operatori at E
alin the TY stern conic meal a in combina: rare Ind, rated voltage, and ried Hegueney SÉ (he Sip
print Ran into cieca ance (CM) reni it atte CN CSI)
Quatisied Person. One who bas cil and knowl celatedto Rated Output Power, Toe ampli manufatuce’ aie oc
the conisactionandoperationofihe eicetriaalequipment and Marat pul power apabilà into it ate loa (31%)
insiallatione and bat tccened mic training to cones and ROMPA
avoid the hazards involved. (MP1) Rated Power. The output power of a ind turbine at is rated
vat ou: So NEPA TELL Subordo Frodo soe 999 CoN
Soh Wo ot ot <n rig em
Te Sy ——
Raceway, An cnclosed channel signe prety fo hold omo Sans Bor Vo Frat mo Br
sites, cable. of busbars, with additional funtionsas pennino rating sind ho poser tin
n this Code, (CHP) Receptacie. A comaci device installed at the outict for the
Raceway Cell. A single cnclosed tubular pace in a cellular  connetion of an attachinen Plug. oe for the det connection
masi oe concrete iso member, dhe axis ol ie GIÙ being of cecal utiFtation pape designed to mate nin IRE
etal the axisofthe oot mere (CMPR conespondbg contact douce A single exces È a sige
Racevay, Cella Metal Foor, (Cellar Metal Floor Ratmvar) Ge RR A uli cepa. È Io De most contati oes
be ho spaces of hoa metal ont: together wi multa DA rf A muMpl tecptece E ie
“on the sare pole a sa ©
le ngs, at may be appre as nko Shame for ee.
en vat] None: A daplea ssp a an snap of a
Sn tn
Raceway. Communications. Communications Reap) An oe.
Cove channel of nonmetalle materiale decodes
fo holding commankatione Mec and bbs opical hhc; Atcepicie, WeghtSupporiag Celing MSCRO (Heght
cables: data cables associated with nionnation technology and SUpporting Ceiling Receplacke) A contact devi installed at an
; ; Sudei Tg for TEE combat, a spp of amines 5
“communications equipment: las 2, Clan 3 and Type FLTC
cables and powcr mines fice aloes cables in plenum, riser, ‘cilingsuspended (paddle) fans using a weight supporting
and gencrabbur pose applications, (CHP 18) attachment fing (WSAF). (CMP.18)
Racevay, Strai-Iype Channel. Siria Type Channel Ray 4 {al Mone Ber ANSINEMA VD. Ame Stima!
metal avait ued to be mounted to dhe surface of Li of nc uN cre
or suspended from a structure, with asociatod accessories for and related weg sap porting absent flings.
the intallation of cca conductors and i. (CMPA)
Recepicie Outie An oui where one or more cccpiacks
Raceway, Sorface Metal, Sarface Metal Racevay) A metal Are Tema (MPA)
acero that E mene to be panied to thx surface of a
Fare, va hashed mph colon Poe, an Recondiioned Berner) srs, cpr appa.
ios tor the installation af electra condurione: (CHI att components at are Foote to pesate Sandi done
"e curo This process dille from normal servicing of equipment that
Raceway, Surface Nonmetalic (Sarface Nommetalic Races) nab salti a facili, plat ment of linea equipment on
A nonmetalic away at È intended to be mounted im the me ont bist: CM)
ao a se vot are eouplngn connector, + bw (C4 et ees
Boxes, anal Tings fo he nation of sec al conor voctuatio na Nove: The turi ended five ls ferro
oes afte oa ond. rated ot reer
Racer, Onderfiocr. (Onder Raceway) A ron and Recreational etic (RY) (Camping Trader) (Motor Home)
Srocaica camponens deine and Inended for daion (Tvl Tae) Track Camper), A schio: slide. capes
Real or n il dhe ae 13 Int for lon ‘988 15, primar designed 3 tempora lang mers for
of cables and electrical conductors. (MPA) poner ox 1s moutted ai or tener by another vehicle:  regula
Rul. The structural support for he spend cellisg sistem o by he National gna Tall Safety Administration as a
Spiel forming the <a grid supporti he ecding tile vehicke or vehide Eup docs hot regate a speci Pgh
Ere utilizition squipinent, suc as sensore arusiori ray use pe mk for operation onthe gap and can be carl
A/v devices, and Iowoktage luminaires and similar cher  mansported and sti up on a dais bass by an individual
oman (345) (CMPARÌ ire soytyiehy eh
Rainprof. Constructed, proceed, or treated ross prevent [Stl Note: Sec EPA 1192. Steet on Rocmationt
Fon Fo neo sth Ie uted pation of he a) Vai boas Amos A, far pot aes nd ain.
afte iad f i 1 enable Ichi
ain om nrg ih the mace pen a and bi aa eso
Raintight. Constructed or protected so that exposure to a beat- Recreational Vehicle Park. Aix parcel or tract of land under
mL Ap (Be ee control of an porn. beganiation, a goermental entity
be ob lm ol bere tun or Tote rectealional ese seceatiorai park
rae ao aes camping stes are liete for ue by the
sesta Stio ——— 0m
Cop EPA Foreichue se a TPA Fog, cess afr Holo oir sours nrc
Tao Saves roan on oe was ean os


--- PAGINA SUCCESSIVA ---

arms ARTICLE i — DERNITIONS
public or members af an oganization forovernight says (301) Retrofit Ki, Sign Specific, (Sign Specie Retro Ki) A kit
fee comeing of he necessary pat and hae to allow fo held
inviallation in a host sn. based on the sade inelaliation
retina ei Site, A specie atca sibi a mentor [LIT (6 LS
sehicke park or campgtound ibi 1 sie for ire bra camp
og unit. (958) (CMS) Revere Polarity Protection (Buckfeed Protection) A som
tha prevents Nin inteteonpeed poner supplica, connec
Recreational Vebicle Site Sopply Equipment. A ponct outlet posthe to negativo, Lom pang caret Lom one pont
sembly located near th point of ereraner af supp} conde:  Soarer ino a scena poet source (395) (CMP.AA
toreto a recrcational hick site and intended to constitute the nd per i ’
diwonnecing means for competed recreational vehicles, Bide Device, A device or combination of doc that carry
Gen oe TEE rn ov of gh oc or oe
ted eran abi a delinea arca fo the primary Pp
Recreational Vie Stand. That arca of» cccteatiomalrehide 120, WD 2 defied arca foc the prima pucpor
site intended for the placement of a tocrcational vehicle. (351)
at River Cali, Cable Routing Assembles, and Racevays. Cable,
ing Pol cable routing emis ana raceways that have Ghent
Reference Grounding Point. The ground bus of the pant Go (Cells pablo of preventing the camming of Bice from
board or obtcd pone system pancl supplying the paticrt Thon: to floor and are Kable for es ima serba l run in a aft
care coom. 1985.5] (517) (CHP15) ea fon i done CE MP
Relative Algeria A statcof sedation and partial block of pain safe Zone, Low probability of damage cher than a sight sweh
preccpion producot in a patient b the nbalaton of concen. {ng of Ihe caparsor case. as denied by the case Tope
Biome of mito: oxide inllicni to produc Jo di UNE OOO ca, I
conseiousnese (ensioue atom). (IT) (CHP
safety iui. The part of a control sistem containing one or
Relay, Automatic Load Control (Automatic Load Carol ard dies Ihat pertonm a sale seats function 953951
Relay) An emegency ging contol device used to Se oie
emily dimmed oF nommalioli sched emegeney bg
opment to fll power Illumination Evel in he ion oF a liforautionii Note: See NEPA 79202. Hotrod Sarde pr
SF normal ppl pain the Arges esd Hares Sgt cel rel a ich
a EE PO Crk by oi amato Th ale sk cn lo had
poema sates when the dec senses the normal spply bas SUO oa aa I ie dh sw lt
Been coco, (70m (CMPS) whee v
toni Note Sor SUL 028. Fano Lime md on oe wat + to ming ot ob fo ae
Fa Eat De ra og eed provided wih a means of sat o locking o that bo
ib parts cannot be made cecil thn pening te ene}
' cnt taco fips
Remo. Control Circuit Any clerical cca tht coreroli any
other circuit through a relay or an equivalent device. (CM P-5) Foie how oe aan aug or aus mol be pee
Ba Seated fas applied 10 huzardous (classified) locations.
PI ut i Commute such hat equipment = scale hey ga
ee (45) (CPI) i ares and cnc di
di ento Di an cena ate and oped ens
Resimance Henig Element. specie separate cement to nomaloperation or for any maintenance enon (CA
foncrate beat that anatalone, extemal atachod to maul Koc: Soe ANSUUL 121201, Sine Et
bere in, inegratod wih, or internal to the ob tobe ripari pa Cir Cina land Ln Zend Sca Ml Dna
cated (CATT) Son dani Hie, teks Loan to iio
Informational Note: Tabukir Beaters. sii hosters. beating inf ation.
Lin tein Han ardor Ware Sete, tiermelicaly, (He rmtially Sealed) Scaldagainsi the
[A SS e beer paroli oppio primario Seah) Saket agei
Reaticted Industrial Esiablishment las applied fo huardous by sion of metal io metal, ceramic lo metal ar gia to metal
iclufiedì locations], Erablirament mah rente publ CAPA)
access, where the conditions of maintenance and super ion Inf orautional Note: Sex ANSE/UL (21201. Novinornadie Eco:
ensure that only qualified persone service the installation. cot Equipment for Use in Clos ad 1. Doriana 2 and Cass HI, Den
rn Sun dard 2 Home, enmodots Luton To ion
Retrofit Kit, A complete subascrbly of parts and devices for information.
fickiconsetsion of utiliaton equipment, HR) Section Sign. A sign or oui Nghing mcm, shipped as
bse, tat gues fekdinta lov wing between the
Romy, Cent Ora (Gere Om ter IA E ASE EEL
conssingafprinany pis which dees pot melade all dhe parti ge pel Jose fo fon a gle gn Unk or ate
fora complete subassembly but includes a ist of require installed as separate remote parts of an overall sgn. (60)
and installation. nsiroctions to complete the subassombby in iy <P pa e
he tela (609) (CAP AR)
[re Jp
CHB EPA rele veo NEPA Fe Accessori Nol i sour bac cr rice
Fo ines contati Sse A ro tori Aen ste Sen EERO o


--- PAGINA SUCCESSIVA ---

AKTICLE 10 — DEFINITIONS iaTERI
Selected Recepuacies. A minimal number of cecepiacks sele. Service Equipment, Mobile Home, (Mobile Home Service
ted by the heath cute facili» gosceming body as fecestaty 0 Equipment) The Cquipment containing the deconncerihg
provide cecal patient care and BY services during es of ERTS, guercurreni PVG devices, and recepiackr o other
Forma poet 19:83 404] (917) (CAF 157 care or connedting a Mobile Borse Keder amembiy. OM
RESI
‘Self-Contained Therapeutic Tubs or Hydrotberspentic Tanks (MPA)
A oxy brake Unit consising of a therapy (ub of Senior Latera. The undeground conductors between the
Bydrotberapeutie tank with all nagtrcieculating heating an WI SIH supply emer and the Se poms. (MPN
control cope integral 10 de unit ER mar Serie Pain TE e fais
include pup, ak biowers, heace, Night control, sanitiace  Sertice Pini. Thc point of connection A
generator. ano forth (0) (CHATS ofthe serving uh and the premises wen, (C3P.10)
im Note: The xe pint be srt st th
Separble Power Supply Cable Assembly. A exible cord oc We Ya Be smh bb
cable, including ungrounded, grounded, and cquipment the premises bing begin. Te sensing ati geeralh, yi fies
rounding conductors, provided with a cord connector an he location of the serie pint hv in the condition al ario
Simcha plug, and al oir kings, grammes, or devices i
installca for dx purpose of Aching Guy fro fhe sures
a dl ipa nh Serine, The procs of following a maint et of
AU) ang surface ic. (826) (SPAZI ‘me machons or applicable Inc uardanie to amie, fs
TRU) Hang: or perform prestubed action upon equipment with the inten
Sepa Deed Sym. An chs pon sup up on presina ac restore fo opal pertonnance af he
SECT han a serio Raving no dircet conacclion(:} lo Geculi captor (COMA)
Conductors of any other Girl source othe than tho as
Peo tna Ne Sc bo i res bins
Service. The conduciors and equipment connecting ihe sere Spore Pane on lect a
ore Powe. The cloarcal cauiprent roguircd to power a
E unlit to the wiring stor of the premics se frying vou including, but not rid to the rocepiacle and
MP) conte (538) (CHPT)
Service Condurtors, The conductors from the service point i oon, te her «sand dee the
coeine. The tathes cuni of sanding vate under E
the service disconnecting means. (CUE) applicable conditions that decanine the ckemical datum
Service Conductor, Ovelbead. (Ovebrad Service Conduce. piane for the spocied body of wate (#2) (MPI)
ora) The overbeari conduttore beeen he SITS POUR aÎd oper Clon, re sent Pa «
ori Circuit. An abnormal connection (including an are)
the fis point af connection io The oer contactors Sor GG 12 aber conection (cling a a0 of
at the balding or aber acces (CUP) tonali. between tn af more pois of Alen potential.
Service Condiriare, Underground. (Underground Service (CMP)
Conus) The underground onituctore beers the gr CL Careni Rating, The prospects serial
ice point and the fini point of connection to the service: ETUC at inal oltage to nbich an apparatur or
cotranee conductor n a terminal box, mem of OEE ier Tx able to be connectod without sistaining damage
ciara, inside or outside the bulding al, CSF ae be
ti to hse iter no iran bon, ue nf on TE minatore above duo
nan of he ons conda oy ilo Ue hi Hing. used or designed to be uscd for the display of good or adsertis.
i ing marrial, whether # is fully or party enclosed or entirely
Service Drop. The overhead conductors between the serving open at the tear and whether or not & has a platform faked
utility and the service point, (CMP-30) ight than the street Boor level. (MPI
Service Entree Condutor Asembiy. Multiple sigle. Sign, Photovolisic (PV) Powered (PV Powered Sign), (Photo:
insulare conduciors SOREN whit an eral cover: vane (PV Powered Sign A cpl sn pon sost by sot
ing, other than an opgonal binder intended any 10 kecp the mcg consuma of all components and subaerblier for
datos ogee (LA Peake Che aranofigrid can alone on-grid Interactive
onion Entrate Conductors. The service conductor beeen 9° Pongidinieracihe kc. (900 (CHL)
the terminals of the service equipment to the service drop, Sign Body. A poction of a sign that may proside protection
ovedhead sevice conductoni, sonico lateral, or Underground from te scaibet but 1+ not an eleeiscal enclosure. (600)
Service comtucirs (CAPT) rv
ml Kt: Whe ee copies bread vi ienaling Cie, Any electrical circuit tha cnergiscs signal
fee gh, Spc, an eveglcssignaiog
or Sod ens oe th PA i stone
Simple Apparat, vn clerical component o combination
Series Equipment The meomary cqupmen nse of a 0 ed chal
circuit brah) acts) and ue) and hee arm Sonponensof simple ona action vi well dlined chal
Econ e ong and intended os ESS em gre moe fon [3 nk J
the main control and disconnect of the serving wiley ore than 15 mate and is compatible wich the intrinsic safety
npn of the circuit in which itis uscd. (CMP14)
ES ANAL ELECTORAL GO se
Copri HEPA Sorgacuma ast cr NEPA Frog Access afr Nol or Gite cosa vic
Fauna Co i rs aver ata oe CoE EGR om 2


--- PAGINA SUCCESSIVA ---

urna ARTICLE MO — DEFINITIONS
i indiude pumps, alc
pr Bonet tr, beh, combat. ie genera, ot #0
0 aie compe: fo xi, ices mse CN CAP
ee orn, Semple, Sable Spa or or Tubi Spano
et and Sl bn emily on or sere ot ge ta
J HU UVR el to be Mossa vo not inc ana a for
Vida dae nn a ion. NO) FT
hn daerminne de melhor Space. A partion of the health care facili designated by the
BE mis Reali care G's goremina hc ht ome a pach
o Sie tat Bhs hall og Shs lng
100 mA 4nd 25 ME Special Permission. The writen consent of the authority
om Note Ko Ser ANS US rat Som
ed ony eet on Gu i i
Qin do nation Cano nia of “Wf Special Protecson sr", To of protection ths pres design
[rt au Ti foro Mo AR seins Sol sini (hai cino be RAR
a emir compact pe Di protein si combinata
Single ole Separathe Connector, A device that small at OSTA RPS SE dal HSE can be demaniale vo
Ives i i orale thay Pee Briatore, fut Ha can be demon iet 10
Er ee pl i
tables or one cable and a sigle. pi, pack mono sepa
prrsstsby vrs ry —
ape net nn 5
Sec mning Device. A prc. mound connecting means He 1 Ep Pct di Sn
naar the ase poi or pop of violation,
quer Ta emade emerge e hen, of come  Special-Purpose uli Circ Cable Spuem. A portable
al opronal stand Asem (947) (MPT) branch ciceuin distribution system consising of one of mare
tank caller and opal break ave mile: o mul ct ali
Seon Tubing Neon tubing that lf ine sn ar outlie uly encionion (820) CHF 157
{Emit ero tached to an nclomuccor sen boty Spider (Cable Splicing Block. A device that contains bushars
dat ate ra och ates Ft the ions of ob
Ship. A berthing space between or adaceut to picts, wharves, or distributing power to portable cables and cords that are
Et sal es aed vt ot ocupanon bing powcr 10 prable ables and corde that are
150833 al Bon CNF come
al So Ss te ion ft NL Sy Dew A button condo of the ESS, be energy
information: i being disspated and the fivahecl totor is doing down 10 a
Sot Sue Phase Control Dimmer. slic diner where op. CAO (LSP)
the wave shape of the acadidate current docs not follow the fatal Note: A complete op af a Ilie moto cannot
ware shape of the applicd voltage such that the ware shape is cat lintananemol hecuost sl ht high Kner amori of he
Pontine CMPS Fa OO ms A NA xn anh
Solid Sie Sine Wave Dimmer. A solid state dimmer where the SAR the Foe.
a shape af ho cad Am sue foliona the wa shape of Splash Pad ota intended for cecceatiomal hs pr
regen chun feat iio sape de Upear an and delinea do comizio de mare  TE
frat er tl Tango deci noi cog or it
ge os bi 10 te al poh ha a hes wet
Spuor or Tub A bydromasage pol or tub for ercagoral 0 EC cina
of themsprutic we, not locaicd i healih ore files, ONTO GAM CUPIT)
desgnad for immersion of scr, and usually having a filet, Spray Arex. Any fully ncloscd, partly enchscd, or uncockeed
beater, and motordrisen blomer. lt may be installo indoors or arca fi wh fiamma bio or com basil rapors, mis, rears
Codon Fad IPE Se of be Shr on dep at erm due to operates of sp
Feed TV Roh co
ret or heat to hate di conten dened 0 EE pal ofa rav applicanon proces
charge afr cach use. 6) (CPF) © ror a a pe both sp oo ree
Spe or Ho Tub, Packaged Equipment Assembly, (Packaged [Tak 2 bero ace
Spa orto Tu ae spb ig Brite Blois SUR ert an Cabs plenum, nao section, or
rg ol wee. heating  copol cquipmeni es eo
mnt mcdalaing bong scone opt SRT ok lattrg
Etc can include pur at Bones dg Aroma pray application process
consob, ager, ot CARI 0) het Sed Con path up ot ct
Spa or Hot Tb, Self-Contained. Sef-Comained Spa or Hot an solvent concenzalor (pollution abatement unit oc
Eh un cans eae oo 2s lus concent Gpolluton al
To nian eat and control mp.
re [ES
Coma HEA or ce ae ce PA rg ces or sr couric, rics
BE ay en weeny


--- PAGINA SUCCESSIVA ---

ARTICLE 1 — DEFINITIONS arri

0) ie inside of a membrane clone Stage Property. An article or object used as a visual element In
ole dl a a motion picture 0 tek son proaction, cept pan ach.

loving are not part ofthe prays: grounds (ecenery) and cones (850) (P10)

1 freshaic makeup wits: se Ser A specie arca set up with temporary scenery and

(Dai suppl duck and ac ppl peru ete desgied andro a piro con in a

© rtm om of cca ERE IEE i meme to pins

(0) xh duce fron scr concentrato (pollizion abate. Suge Switchboard, Fixe (Fixed Se Switchboard perma:

end an 155533231 (SPO ey eld evitchbea cd. pancho or cack containing

rice or cele ay oxo) ener eni proicellte del

rm So No. li cnn iy arc bai

Gate of bags of tc boo] seam sibi a Ber cos, x everaurEent protective devices alone, used primarily to

coon or yas. Sih arcs an normally pn ied with soa food stage equipment. (CMP-15)

YS RT BLAME er Seve, Fal. (erable Suge Sever) A

re oe sc

ri re png wh aod ai BN oro th pl SCA guerurtent protectin dere, or (Cel protect:

Cain aria + Teves alone, tec to food stage equipment. (320) (CAP I13)

mal Note No. 2: Sc dein for fm fbr Stan amp, A portable stand tha contains a general purpose

ir i er ot od on. laminaice 0 lampbolde wth Gad fo the pipe of Provi
ing general Illumination on a Gag, in an abot, rin a

Spray Area, Ouidoar. (Outdoor Spray Ares A spravarca that iN FEE i

it outside the cobs of a building or that has a canopy oc Slo. (920) (CMPAB)

coda docs not limit the dissipation of dhe heat of a ft or Stnc Alone Syste. sys that sno connect io an le

dispersion of Hammable PR Red docs an tric power production and distribution nctwork. (CMP-4)

Thing access and control For the purpore of te a 3

is oor sm can be i i an eon say Stationary (sapped to pment, Equipment hat is not

Sree delinea ht Co 1881832 51] API amet ram one piro 10 amos nord e, (051

Si Uni di nni confine by a fone Ti worker, Storage, Dry Stack (Dry Sick Storage) A fas, sith

ipa bott oF a fo. ae bc de S155] Sd coved, comzucied i bocotal and cial

(otra Tn defined sis arranger beds hodzontalis and. vertically

Spray Booth A powcr) edocs for gry sppl 190883242] 039 (CNF)

Ron operati no! process ha core an limit he cape

te att bey presen cheng vapor mist dus and ore Ener, Bower Supply Spe SESS, complete

ish hat art podio by 2 ny operation and ng BSS powered E

comucts oe dc dsc malerals 10 an exbaust sieme CMPS)

1888-8491 MPA) Stranding, Compact. Compa Stranding) conductor stand.
al Note A sia bh ban do ing Mola ch ca Cnc of ran tm gees
in roo motor Codi Jar png to nie th gap bee he anh ta the aval amc
bis A ur bei vai be To enc of eve en ter of the iho Conductor e less han a concentri sanded
Tas ano ie aaa sonar oc sid caro and Jess Ton a OPE eared sont
The qa SR ied wih + decker venato nn
Commit inh me orm o + deta
pastry Strandiog, Compressed. (Compressed Stranding) A conductor

cdg met in which the outer layer of ear pce

Spr Room, 3 prverecaubied fay exci roam Wi 3 ogee so the overall diameter of th finished condbctor de

specie fe coxtane eating weed excel [open sas [ELS a concentrie rand conduetor but grower an 3

PR compat sranded condacor. (IPS)

Sap Efe Speci Bic, anche ciscicomecha. Standing, Concer, (Concnrie Stramdiag) conto

Coming of a msght contra and werd by ane or

See of equipment a to re Ai lr COVE of a igh com aad cided by one oc

Sills clot suchas a od machine, lighting Simubior, of MO,

Samet profe CAPA) i

; SuipLigat A luminaice with multiple lps ranged in a co

Suge Equipment. Equipment at an locaton on the premo: Soap UE. AN ple lpr arn

imsgnal o e ttage production neliding. ht mot (ie to

equipment for lighting. audi, special CC ig, motion Sector. That which is but or constructed, dhe han

CoE projetioh, of hon. (40 (CHP 1) npn (CHP)

Suge Lighting Hoist. A motorized Wing desc dit contains a Saructure, Relcalable, (Relocatable Sirachare) A actor:

mol prion for an 0c More ic vali wiring mshi ae SC: Tapa hi one ae fe

devices tx connection of WITS to branch chel an sections fat are bh on a permanent chasds and designed to
imegral Bexible cablerto shod aie to masclonerdie bs uno ar other hai a dRelliNg UE UT a ponent
cpr "e
Ning range of he bois sile energiaeal (820) (C1151 foundation. (43) (CPT)
destin AON ELECTRA CO om
Coen EPA rex e ce FETA Free Accessori Nol ci sours cr rice
ARE Ei das pA Te


--- PAGINA SUCCESSIVA ---

anni ARTICLE I — DEFINITIONS.
total Note: Ecos of bial stars ate docks bones ac on box coves, or abv wee in conn:
BS be To SSN pal wo inti it cognac bt Coe. (CMPS)
corm lor and iter onsiie Fees con drain pb dora Sich, In ni o! winch) i ’ ”
ER Sato drei To bo Vo ee a sich, lsolating. (sling Switch) A switch intended for
Ue ai mone ag cents. or fo the dhe of isobting an chica circus from the source of power It has
felsic hii hw mpg ming. and il is ic opr only

Subussemby, Component parts a a segment ofa sign, cerotie HT the ict bas boc opened by some ole cans

kit, or outline lighting system that, when assemblea, forms a (CMPS)

complete of prose, (600) (CHP 9) Suite, Motor Circ (Mote Circuit Switch) th acd in

reton An ammmblage of equipment (eg. mitches, ice. boreponte ha is capable of INET he Fa oper:
bumion A bigs ofoquiprmeni (eg. mich rm at ls capable of cpg ie maou op

Coping Ae, Creat bese bu and vance 0g modkad awn of a motos of he sane

through whi eiccide energy + ase for the purpose of nas he sich atthe cate sage. (C1

iio. tcing. or mong Be cMachi% Switchboard. A large sigh panel, frame. or assembly of pares

Gis n le ac anne on Me te, bach, 9° bah, mh

reese and othr precise Asse, hse, and usa

‘Supervisory Comrol and Data Acquisition SCADA). An ch. nd other pi 5

tronic system that provides monitoring and controls foc the iMstomme ns (CMPS)

“peration ofthe a operatiore poet spe SV) mais! Note: These sbi cun he ss ci ome
FL This can inelude ie fre alano siena the cure enc the Bon xf ax tiie
Sa ao men carol le HAC Sos on
ERE ATA SE  Siichgear, An sey completely clo on al eis and
BT Seeley yi ore gener git

» ; oi nds a Song primary Power Ge

Suppor Areas. Aca, other than fed production offs, SBI, ISTE donc, ar Both wih cs and

Erde 10 support production and here image capire ll comet The ame bl may cle control and suey

not take place. Such arcas indude, but are not limited to, desices. Atos 10 the interior of the endosure & provided by

me incon Sec siotage, and Ropar velick® dour oma cours, of both. (HFT)

and tmilers for cast, makeup, har, lighting grip, mardrobe, nformaional Note A igor sab Lo NEC equi

props, catering, and call services and portable restrooms a meal meo wa. Sic hgea fed bob LOW V or lea ata be

ERC Bom Se Ce

Sina Tad oe 1008 me hentia

Surge Arrester. A protcatise devier for limiting surge voltages ond mite gear of “itabelad volte ear” Seite hear i

by discharging or pipe sucge current; it ako prevents avadlabh n fea Fela of afta name.

continued flow of follow current while remaining capable of Switching a. per

Fopeating there tanetiore, (CMFATI itching Device appied 10 equipmeni ratedover 100 volte
Pe on 2 (300 om Be nomini} ink ans de pe

Surge Protective: Device SPD). A protects devi fx Bing oth one ar more lta cus (CLR

Euterpe ine of Ung fe cotend R alti

presenti coed fo af foo evens remaining Cotout An assembly ofa fc support ith chr fecholdc,

Capable of repeating these functions and is desigrated a WSC carrie, or disconnecting blade, The fuscholer or fae

Toho: arie may include a conducting clement (fuse Link) or may

1 Type 1: Permanenily connected SPD intended foc nak kp dsconnecting bce by the clusion of a nonfasible

on rime the socomiary of th Lor he rami
tho Side of he Service Aseonncei osereurreni  Diuomerdng Such or lioladng Sule. A mechanical etching
seco devio soll tor Bolating a diretto equipment kom a source

(0 Tape Permanenily compet SPDs intended for rial of PONT

on on the bad side of the see ete net
cere device, including SPDs located at the branch panel Imirmgprer Switch. A switching device capable of making, carey
©) Tope 3: Pant of utilization SPDs ing and interrupting specific currents

© Tepe 1 Component SPU, including discrete compo. Oiled Cutout, A cutout in which all or part of the fax

Ne ea aes, {C310 Support ant it a lin 0: cmc ng Hoe ds monic in
stema Nore Ser tent Segr Prato Gi Soe Immendon of th coc and he ble
nian Sopot fr Sgr Pr portion of the conducting element (fuse link) so that ace inter-

Foon sein. a the fisc link ax by opening of he

Suspended Calin Grid. A system that serves asa suppoctfoca corona ane

outa ling ace ad abe inion copra. (395)

Prva O oh ching der biog contact tn operate

‘Swikh, General Use. (General-Use Swilch) A switch intended ner ol or askacel or other suitable lui

for use ingeneral distribution and branch cient. It iscared in Aguiator Bypass Switch. A switching device or combination of

rapes 1 apa of hap 1 mid Centar iu aching des designed pS edo conal

rig (FD voltage oti ae cen character eli

‘Swikh, GeneratUse Snap. (Generare Snap Swikls) A form Syslem [solation Equipment. A redundantly monitored,

of generalise switch constructed so that it can be installed in comotcl operated contactor. folating sytem, packaged to

an [UE —
Cop EPA. ores ve ce NEPA Fog cess afr Flo oir couric nrc
or De re Rn


--- PAGINA SUCCESSIVA ---

ARTICLE 100 — DEFINITIO NS own
provide the dsconneation/Bolaon fanciion, capable af seri. nonal power source to an emetgeney poser source, (7/00)
Sole petition Tos liom cationi anol (COAT
PR eH boni ie capable af belt pale
Tibet opa pono om aot So web spe MN
ap Conductor, concer, other tha sv condor, RRL
pei. ahead DE A pot oF orp Tats Seb. pee lin son Tres
ETE Tr aT FI ste Suse pes (mete, pps ston rns
are protectedas described elsewhere in 204 ZA) (CMP-30) dovice used in conjunction with a transfer avitch to provide a
minato, Ton oc ch minim plug Tea GE direi cones a como 1a a poser
Te mint venga i (CMPS)
SES ing rs accesi 10 supplier and equipment Tate Swi, Meter Mommas (Mees Mod Tales
Jet Aerie Pau a an es
“Tectmical Power System. An clectrial distribution system. and the meter ba. (CMP-13)
shee the cquipment grounding conduc «slated fom the Lnforaatianal Note: Meier ar anied trailer sitchen can peg
fuga aioli al He prember squpmeni A e pae DEN o
Era N A oa OE i ber, Tt he, Go Tame 0
on i bead ano e origin oa TS
Jy i ir foot 01 al Th ee me
raha pane mer. Equip, ther sie phase oe pol
roi cd (640 CF 12) pips Basti eh an
Tenparary Equipment, Vonable viring and equipment ic Shag in a parvo I Ren and voltage na eon
sy pig rpg Sd lis divi
Beh de ee cos i
: Transition Ae, An 3 emily car: connection of
ston of the event. (84M (CMPAZI the Ilat conductor cable {Type FCO) swam to other wiring.
Terminal (en spied 10 bare, That part of a col At, formar 1) a mca of aia ecco
ein vo ow ot A a aa xo Fong rig Stl
Commented ps pA pole. or era post), ly aud prtcetion agata ppd damage (520) C1
ACMP18) Tranaport Refrigerated Unit (TRO), A trace oc container,
Thema Protector (an spied 1 motos. A protect device wu oes “cooling Kevbog, oo urea or Th
Re mani Ee Pari ors Moro moe. purpos DE mamma te Rede dine E
rm don Pl gr Be tor resi poo dis (906) RESTI
pisprli atoning Mink apr fd a, pl ou on
a ae Topi Xe equpnene tale im de wal in a
TOE or thai may he ay amb to tpn 2
rmbt Sac To ed pict am coma done ei COEN EMA TEI
ZEST I 0 SO Trace A motor sehicle designed for the transportation of
ee re te 15
Thermal Resi, The bea tee capably trough a
prose dite Truck Copier. A much lang sar net ane ring cord
Tor CPI
Tn WAL WALA Tk Fianged Sartace es. The devicelt) on te uk into
Fao het dhe one) È seed lo pende ccs ney
“Thermally Prolecied (as applied to molorsi. A motor or wa other roniecs This device is pant ofthe truck coupler. For
ie pos a ir wi the Fs ge Sartore init de
motor compressa that is provided with a thermal protector cy feted 10 be part of the track and not part of the clo.
wn ee en B35 Se
ep Shield. A grounded meal icld coving under
components of the lat condor abe (ype FCO) yom for rk Cable: A portable cxcron cable ontaiing sn ot
the purposes af providing protection agar physical damage, "Ofc branch ciccuits, a male mukipole plug. and a fem
{be pup : Inalupole pack (020) CAF 1)
Tubing, Electrical Mec 67, (lca eli Tu
Tom, A pole ce stare that suppers sian.  TaPing Ei Ment (ENT, Benito Tug)
(a (CMF designed for the physical protection and routing of conductors
Tuner Sch. An ators ox nonautonaie device for and Abi and tor ta SPATE ground condicio
transferring one or more kad conductor connections from when installed utilizing appropriate littings. (CMP-#)
oe poet sue to another, (CHP 1S) ‘Tubing, Electrical Nonmetallic (ENT). (Electrical Nonmetalfic
te Sw, Brano Ciani Emerg gin Brus Teg) pe pte, eed arena enh
rE wih veg or oman ohio
EE oncom poi So nfo He etallation ci cnr eto Li
on ee Vg ooh Rom he mpg later ot Fea 10 ma hh
te TT akan


--- PAGINA SUCCESSIVA ---

arn ARTICLE 10 — DEFINITIONS
A pliable aca isa meeway that can be bentby hand with fowl Nove: Cis and cop ste al pic!
a ressonabe force but ekoutatbes asistance. (CIP) SET or Mar BRA dina DEVI
i re att DT e ogy Tham certo: nau volate
Tig Peel ells OD, CoM MAIN) 2 guar, Lon Gion sg n conn fare ci
liquidight shots nonmetallic pcker (MPA) Ra volts, nominal oc ess. (381) (CPT)
TwoFer An assembly containing onc male plug and oo Voltage, Nominal (Nominal Voltage) A nominal value assigned
Toker, an ssombly containing onc male plug and ie a Secoli eos dettare
a a CMPS) ing ls ole clus eg, TEED vole, ARN/ZII Solis,
600 vol). (CHP)
e of Protection “n°. Type of protection whee ckatrical
Dre ol Proton Type of protection where eke) fst Not 1: The atua skis at nhs a cir
Surging expiosive gas atmosphere and a Gul capable of | Te tt tu the sie ii eng ht per
Cating pon snot Heels to occur, (C31F-1) ” e
alora Note Na 2 Sx ANSI OSM, ido: rt,
Cotati Sete: See ANSULL GUL. Expl oes A MANTA
Ben = Pat 1% noe tiny Tipo of Prin di fa rs Frum Syms and ques 0:
psig Voltage, Nominal (as applic fo barter or cel (Nom! oir
Th van as.4gnedio cel ox batter of a given vokage
Ongrounded. Not connected to ground of to a conductive 2, tor the purpose of comenian deaghaon. The operati
body that extends the ground connection. (CLP-5) Soltage of the ci os battery may vary above or bok (saluti
‘Oniniemuprible Power Supply (UPS). A device or spera hat (CHP 9)
provides quality and continuity of ac power thraugh he use of oil Notes The usi coins monia! sell ola
2 preredenetg: device as the backup power source for a period LH per sel for ite aot en, LE sulla per ed
of time when the nocmal powcr supply  icapable of perform or ba aod 82 Sl per eli fo id Battere
ing accepiabls. (CHP 15) Nomis ls hs ali ren enc
Oni Equipment. A batccsequipped emergency lumini Vollage to Ground. For grado ics the voltage beeen
that iNiminate? only as part of the emergere ITI the Fic conductar and hat point or conducior of re circu
sem, and ot lied wher nonzal suppl it avala: that i gronndot for ungrounded rcs, the greater okags
ble. (CUPID) brucei the ghen conductor and any ocher conductor of the
Oslization Equipment. Equipment hat utlscsclctic cneogy Suit (CHP)
for clectronie, diectromechanical, chemical, heating, lghing, Watertight, Constructo so that mekstuce will not cnt the
or similar purposes, (CIPD) encore under specie tox conditions. HF.)
Valve Action Motor (VAM) Assemblies, A manufacucod Weatherproof, Consiniciod ox protected so that exposure to
ascembiy, wed to operate a rahe, consiting of an actor the weather will nor Ite with, sueconfil Spon
mole an tes componenti ch oe cone gr (Goo 1)
mvitcher, limit wader and moka protection (1) ww © No: Repro, abi ,
Cuan cca CAG venere: of Sedo Shere Va
Cotati Sot VAN kal ue ssn ty and io weber mado ihr th einen, ah a von Re,
etme du rt WSC'arienetatare time are nia a
Ventilated, Provided wih a means to permit ccclation of air Wharf. A structure a the shorcline that has a pliform balle
sifficient to remore an exces of He, fuer, or vapors along and parallel to a body of water with cither an open deck
Cotes) ora superstar, 1303.3281 (5) (CHD
vessel. A container such as a barre, drum, or tank fer boldisg Wind Tartine, A mechanical device that converts wind energy
Taso other material. (CMP.I7 lo letra energy EPA)
Volatile Flammable Liquid. A farmable liquid having a flash Wind Turbine Ouipui Circuit. (Turbine Qutput Circuit) The
pont below SPC (IDE), or a Sarma Qk who circuit conduaors berween the internal componcnti of a wind
Temperate it above is ish point, or a Clase i combustbl: tubino {which right neue an alterate, Imogratevd cei
liquid that has a vapor pres. noi exceeding 276 kPa fc, coniraller, and/or mites and other equipment. (604)
Gh pia at SU (NFP) and whose temperaiure fr aber tt (MP)
lash point. (CP) Wire. A factory a semblyof one oc meee insulated conduciars
Voltage (of a circuit). The greatest cootmeansguace (ms) Without an overall covring, (VE) (CLP
edi) dilletenee of potential between any or conduciott APT). The wander of cladal
ofthe circu concemed (CPA) ress Poet Transfer PT) one Tete of choca)
ngs From power sauce to an cketdical bad da magnete
matin Nol: Some si denis ach 0 plo dai fckd by a contacts cane between a primary device and a
khan Fare, and Bod di can mai lare vaso secondary device: (825) (MPI
Uno vaso voltate on Poe Dart a .
ireless Power Transfer Equpment (WFTEL Equipment
Voltage, High, (High Vollge) A potential dilerence of more iwalkd specially for the purpose of ramirring ony
than 4000 sol, nomial (€ SP.) bencen the premier wing And the cece vehicle thos
Physical electrical contact. (625) (CHP-12)
1002 SAPONALELECTR AL CODE Breton
Copan NEPA. So ci se or HEPA Free Access ator RI dr Gilt Gon BRGre, ce vice
For tunes Seria Boer Gin 5 apr Jan dea sce Care] legali Aa ct


--- PAGINA SUCCESSIVA ---

E 110 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS FORELECTRICALINSTALLATIONS 163
tr Ted on WEE vis 163 aris, Mercato, tlio, Co, ad Lit
lm LI rd o TE [orm
a IY
SEPA WI SIRE Ree a
bier thoisal WETE. * (1) Sukability for installation and us in conformity with this

Wirewnys, Metal, (Metal Wirewaya) Shoct metal troughs wih Cae

dems nab ot No, li Bm a be n, ns

fiend Cro mole e iena

after the raccway has boon instalied as a compte system. Tf muatiorsal Bote No. 2: Suitability of equip ment we nas be

Waren, Soom Conmelic Wir) Pane 05 0 Vent De WHE bs 1

oahu th mo eo DTS TL pha Sa

ng and protecting cketrical wires and cables which Marked ot the evi peat, eluded in the produ tinsnadi,

im tay Si ee, boty eo it,

Vork Surface, A inca. stray. poral suas pally 2 chan senha ras, olor for pars

Tr ori we ow ohn tara, nt Ty or So ne es equini dhe

rn Gros, SA ek a e he

pba ede a ir TI [a adplen
peli True ait ets FR ist

fs 8) ELT a cotton of us anda
nN Le CLL tr gine gy SST ony are percio
Muttmetri Asneatiom, wad UL 962, Furniture Power Unito Arc cliects
tis, which cali the perforane cova itis and (7) Classification by type, size, voltage, current capacit, and
wonton itera ‘specific use

sm Eherciiy for pemk comme N sis ope
mail Ne No, 2 fc EL ABH, ant pene for EIN Sle
GET RE, e te AE OE et gen o she © ho hard nauitorita

PR pi and leony Sk i
ne. A physically identifiable arca {such as barriers or scpara- for uatioial Note No. & See the ANSIZISA 62443 series of

tion by distance) within an information technology cquipmant amaro fr induntid smiaion snd control «semo, the

room, with dedicated power and cooling systems for the infor- UL 90 series of standards for witraie sibesecurie for

me ont WT Che oe es by ey
ARTICLE 110 JE a ——
; . Qi pe sang oe Riel io ante io anta

General Requirements for Electrical equipment

Tastallations {B) Installation and Use, Equipment that i ted, labeled, or
ed ra SL oe a arc sa
punt, Genera ies sui an tens ene ar Rel

119.1 Scope. This article covers general requirements for the [nformational Note: The installation aid use instnutions may

examination and approval, installation and use, access to and be prosided nthe formi of printed maid, quick repose

spaces about clectrical conductors and equipment; endosurcs AQRI code. or the adire on Lhe interne whe wer 1a
intended for personnel crery; and tunnel metalation. edonnlosd the required inst acions.
fa oS Wire Ame] for Worm (© Cig. Frc nig, cation, and Wg (product
Tee ee qu de

0 pepe Toe cota an sip ee or Sal ng i angle a ah ape
42 prom The condo: and equipe cn ae hms Sen

permite by thi Codrshall be accepiable nly if approved. and eflectite safety for equipment installed to comple with this
an Lisi. al Adaibabiration (OSHAN wognice qualified cht ial wing


--- PAGINA SUCCESSIVA ---

sea ARTICLE HO GENERAL REQUIREMENTS FOR ELECTRICAL INSTALATIONS
FE ——
TRE SR, ago danaze lee ine nta
mg or et oe cota!
116 Stage To soln: come sal be th at is DE ate ip, ee Tool L025 or nae
the cel apra Toe Be gor cea aes
the pres operata Toe volare ingot cows enioment garmin Ro Na de See ra sm put
tral ot be lan de mnt lage al hh Yomi Noe 4 Sn 074 en, Bets
a lh PE Re
{10.5 Comore Consors wc to carry us shall be Ded a moo
eo Copper ch alano es Sie (413 vemos meen of Mark Elea apn
wise provided in this Code If the conductor material is not hol be installedin a professonal and skibiul manner
Lt eS Tn
er SEE A SILAS btm Nate Ser ANSUNEGA LU Setar Gu
freely fim Sa te a aa Stent oy
kh Bd Gt adr SSE
{10,6 Contac Sim. Conductor si ate xpd In lo
a oe wee mile
(A) Cie Opening, Coe api, ee thn hc
(67 Wiring egy Completed view atone shall be Caio SE apt a Su e, wk or
fece Lana Ea rd i Si an cocaine amin pongo Uno poss part ol th dip
aah ok pet tebe ho ar apra ET da allora protean
= ay Ee © dhe all ol the pa Woe
ea pla are wed lA rental exh
16 Waring Methods rly sng methods ceogniaca ar REALE Aluge or plce arc wd veh nonmeta li cheer
arabi eet to oe Th oie ig ey shal be eco at least 6 mim 1 in fom the
i io 06, Tomi me
oT pee. vaya been? git of erat Equipment and Connections. i
pr, EE A hho weg
I be fo
110.9 Inermpting Rating, Equipment intended to interupt oc contaminated by loccin matcrak such as pain, plastic,
ee ag al mon mami br cin matera ch as pan, pla.
FE FAR pi or
ge ata Gato part da ian ao hee pee
the line terminals ot the cquipment mechanical strength of the equipment such as parts that arc
Equipment intended to interrupt current at othe than fault broken; bent, cut; oc deteriorated by corrosion, chemical
ep hg ant coh roe sco. shea,
EE Eo met ecto. Cals ara ono aie
16.46 Coats topes, Shor Coren igs and SUOLA eC he hal be
i pm Shore Ciel Caen Ringo and mies hs stb
de ei aby amt conducior lo be dama gray ft bg
and other charactor stick of the ciccut to be proteacd shall be Use. Such cables and conductor shall be secured by hardware
Scloctod and conrdimtcd to permit the circuit protective devi. including straps, staples, cable tis, hangers, o similar fittings
ess ue to car a fault 10 do so hoot xen damage 0 sigue and slid go as not damage the cable. The
the clectrical equipment of the cirenit This fault shall be installation shall ako conform with 3904 and 300.11. Nonme-
Te sant mcalle cable scapes os
conductors or between any circuit conductor and the oquip- secure and support cables in otber spaces used for envicon
ment grounding conducnds) permitled in 280.118 Listed mental air {plenams) shall be lisicd as having low smoke and
EE he Fang ball be eo release prope
Conero TEL soma menta al ine eon Le NED SRAEL Sond rd
i Vee Le EARL, Ser
116,1 Dereriorming Apa Usl idonea tor we nih Ini retired eer, 18 207
ors ape TA SA
we ops
es resents Whom oe No, 2 Pain, plo kre, domo,
eT Sra he
lice on he conduc oR rai ro
[nformational Note No. 1: See 900.6 for protectin agaist 116.18 Mounting and Cooling of Equipment.
tornio (A) Mounting. Elceirical equipment shall be fray secuced to
bad Soc No. 2 Sme demi oo liguri mee NE Ele O Mode pig dee duo
Uli Nie NE fn dea Jy a on ih 1 eed oe E del
o (5) Costing, Eccl equipment ht depends on he nati
Eup: noi deed tor outdone we and equipment cee al air an neon bc dor cosina i
ira on tor iaia i ey ores hls ol ale sin pene pics fx cooling d£
re nas ote Sst


--- PAGINA SUCCESSIVA ---

ARTICLE 110 — GENERAL REQUIREMENTS FOR ELECTRICALINSTALLATIONS fren
such sta is no! presented by walls ac by adiacent installed 2) Conductor with higher tempore cating, prosided
equipment. For equipment desea os fior moaning, Gear: the ampacs of such conducioey isdetcmi base on
ance betwecn top Facer and acco! srt acc sha De provi the BE) ampae of the conductor siae are
io desipate dlting mamma 51 Conver ih higher temperature cnn il ie ci

loci equipe prodot ila vendlating opening: mentis leto anid lor ie vali Fh conduttori
local equipment provided with sendlating openinge (4) For motors marked wit design letters B.C, oc D, conduc.
hava De es tne do tor having an insalalion tig ol 75° (167) ox ihe
prevent the fece ican al alt gh oe Cap shall be pormi tea io be veh, proven he ampacits ai
110.14 Electrical Connections. Because of different character such conductors docs not cxceed the 77°C (167°)
nic of dima metal, donk such 35 prove tora or ampaciy
prese phn comeriore and sod pea beer) Termination provisions of equipment fo_cecuis
fica tor the. material of the conductor and shall be property cd over 100 ampecs math ox Conductor: ager han
installed and used Conductors of dissimilar metals shall not be 1 AWG, shall be uscd only toc anc of the following:
recite in a emia) oc peng conc: where PAE (1) Condor acd 8°C (167)
conactoccus bean dissimile Cours unless the device LY Condariori wii higher temperature ratings, provided
Fidei for the purpose and somos of re. Materiale the ampagi of Soh ors does nat toe so
such as solder. fluxes,” ihibicors, and compounds, where 75% (167"F) ampacity of the conductor size uscd, or up
emplorea. shall be rable for th unc and shall be of a pe to hei ampacin i the equipment [ed and ento
hat ill pax adver fect she ondoriore, installation, or foc we wi mh conduc
equipment
«tì separate Connector Provisions. separate inal pres
Connector and ieemimals tor condone more icy stra Suc aunt ios shall o used a th Sav at ih apoE
ded than Glass B and Glass € stranding as shown in Chapter I not exceeding the ampacity at the listed and identified tempee-
Tic 10, shall be imide pede Coco Cm of bcs tinge e tn
« Lu a No: Es hi li io
£4) Termiauis, Connection conductors to terminal parts ey addons er Te Sei a] iemperaate Fane of
Shall ereute a mechanical; cies loin connection Mib uranio
un magi the conductors and al be made by meare di
rese Tito (including se Ape] folder logi 0s (0 Terminal Connection Tore. Thing oc als
pi il pe) 5 for uninal connections shall be as indicated on coulpment or
Fplices to flexible lea. Connection by mene ol wc ining carina] connections shall be as indicatetl on cpr o
Eno se ard mu chat hate upramed lagror th cng, 1 iallation Instruction provide by the mamiciuer An
{ones peti tor 1D Gi smaller condurre peo al
Terminal or more than one condoctoe and ermine ed
rman otc No. Exe of ppm mean of
to connect aluminum shall be so identifica. icv he ica toque value: Marie orgs ok of
8) Spice, Conductors sl be splicca or joined wih splic. kent ashes boo or beat ana sl dee a ad
ing devio identifica fo the use or by bearing. wiki gr UA Mal dint ila E Piper oc Teo
soldering with a ble metal or alloy Soldered spice cha PRA
first be herd ar ined so as to be mechamicaliy and Cn Worm] Note No. 2, Bee CL Sond GHD, Sond
cally secure iin ober ana then be selena AR spices Ar he Cort Aifoonane Anna I fox ose ca
Be a
sith an maton eguisaleni to that of the Conductor or adh NEN aur an be somal ll nove. rue uk
ihn aon cial rer pe Le da
Wire connects o splicing means inmallod on Coons oor Now No, : Sce NFPA 1082019, Rvervmird
tor direct burial shall be listed for such ue. Frac fr El Egan Matwienana, Section 8.1L for abs
So mon 104 au ren ona ine ai
© Temperature Limitations. The temperature rating soc
Sica vit dhe amparity Ol a conducior hall be led and Mii
Comite 32 mt to crc the lowest temperate cag (L415 High Leg Marking, Gna tice, delia connected stem
Fay connect teomination, conde of device. Conde: where the midpoint of he phase vinding it grounded ony
oc wh tempat ng ht than pcched [or Gem the condudor or busbar baving he MEHL Phas ORE: th
nations shall be prea 10 be wd tor ampacy dfvment, ground shall be cuca and pean marke by an outer
concaion orb htt ang in cole Ge by other ine mean Such
idenifeation shall be place at cach point on the gue Where
tl) Equipment Provisions, The deterininanon of iccmination  MentiDeaton shall b placca at coc poni on the get bere
provisions of equipment shall be bascd on 110.1ICHI@) or SE made it the growed cond i
(Nb), Unless the equipment Is listed and marked other P
site, Conduct: ampaciuet wel in demining equipment 16.46 Are Ph Heard Warning
aon pm shall be ta on Table SI 18 PPR 0 Geant spam, sich as ichbouchs
pritely modifica by 310.12, be Vera] equipment, such as cchboards
2) Teominalion provisions of couipmeni for cis SVichgrac, ccloscd panclboacds, industrial conrol, pal
pied 100 amperes ox less or marked tot 14 AWG mg han eli ani, and cl to ei examination
1 AC conductors shall e ued only tor ene of the lowing: SiC clo rman whic dnergac, shall be
(1 Conductor atea GT (ATE) Rick or ctor marked town bts persone of pein
SE AON ELECTRA CO we
CHE EPA rele veo FETA Frog Accessori Nol i sours cr rice
Fauna oT i cr aver Aaa oe Sa EGR om


--- PAGINA SUCCESSIVA ---

tess ARTICLE 110 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS FOR ELECTRICAL INSTALLATIONS
cece ace fla barards. The marking shall mec the cote: 11020 Reconditioned Equipment. Recondlioncd equipment
mons i 102 9 and shall be iocated so ar to be clay se} shall be pernkted excep wares probed acute in ibis
Ble to qualiica prions hore. camination, adurment, Cod. Equipment thai ir tesoretto operating conden thal)
ering or mara ol he equipment ceo with dente places part, win
(®) Service Equipment and Feeder Supplied Equipment, in 0 appleable standards lat ace cer pod by he
ther than dwelling unita, in aridition to the ceguiement in SUSA EQUIPE maniac cro that are degno bran
Since chemin In the design of replacement parti fof
TID TARY. a perpen ate oh bol shall be elo tac SoBe Sxporinced nthe dEi
Ud 1000 amperes ore. To are Tasti bo sull be (A) Required 10 Be Lisied. E in
Soda Wi applicable (Ho practice and hue he Coton nes and pare by ibis Cade 10 De ino sal be
Gate the label va applica. The label shall meet the fete. leto or Red abled as coconditionea using available Retr
Mens ci 110218) tions lm the original equipment man acticer.
Cotati Note No. L See ANSI 2583.4201 | (R017). Pod- (B) Equipment Not Required o Be Listed. Equipment that is
sa Saf Suor and ok, for gurl for ie eign Aden (econo and or pate by 1h: Code 10 be rica shall
foe for api alora prodot art ie en
foi Soc Ko. 2: ce SEPA 22021. Std for be (1) Be Erle Gea bel a cconditoned
rte he ol 5 appli. le hoe, pthc for Et a i accordance wi
ie ler coe pO) une e coining promenade wih
Emig heh kb rcp Mal prac id inal cp
Sah Ten” crt vci, fh bmod it) Approved Equipment. If the oplions specified in
ima. core nc of pend pre opment 100A) or (5) ate ot aalable, the authority having jue
ei dicuon shall be permated to approve cocondilonod Sup:
116.17 Servicing and Maintenance of Equipment. Servicing ment. and he recondiSonee shall provide the authority baring
and clciial preventive maiatenance shall be petormed by Jisdichon with documentation of the changes to the product
willbe persons aed in servicing and malnienance o I
Cquipmeni and shal comply cht following 161 Marking
(1) The servicing and eleetrical preverehe macnn shall A) Equipmeni Markings.
be pertormot in accordance wih the original equipraent (1) General. The manulaciurer'® name, irademark, or othe
manutariuters insiractione and information included in deseripive Foon by which ie organization responsible for
the listing information, applicable industey standard, oF he prood can be identifica shall be applica or dice onto
approved by the abort haring Jurisdietion all eketical cqupracni. Other racket hat indicate voltage
(2) Theservicing andeloetrical prevereive mantenanoe shall furans, wattage: or othet range shall be provided as echo
be pedi ocmod using did eplacoment pars hata cltonbete in the Cade The mating shal be cf sufficioni dura.
vedica nde applicable produci standards The pI: Li to wiheand the emitonment maken.
Men part hal comply wit (eat on oto following A oe
 Reconditior pment. Reconditioned equipment
a Beprovidoa by th original equipment manufacturer
8. e designed by an engines experienced nthe design “hal be marked wk the following:
i teplacemeni paris tor the Spe ol couipmeni being 1) Name, wademark, o: rhe descripiise madkig of the
services or minal organization that port armed the conditioning
©. Be approscd by the authoriny laving — @ The datcol the ccconditoning
oy) The term imonditouat or ole approsed wording or
ich con vo ke mel indicating that the cpp fas bee cen
fireproof
inc iin hi tou he docamentaian ho com “The origiral listing mack shall be removed or made pone:
ee phon parti erty Ulegible. The cquipracar nameplate shal not be
foi Note No. 2 Sce EPA WB, Rrvmnrt rr SE 10 be coma or made peemancntiy illegible, only
Ebel hg mace for formation eines ihe part of the namephic that include the listing mack, E
Hering ames for cd, tia ron amt conan applicable. Appeal of th ceconditioncad equipment shall hot
fit etd Be bamed solciron th equipment <x nal log.
118.18 Arcing Parts, Parts of cloctricalcquipment tht in othe Expo: dust canis, ol condition of aire
imi operation produce arcs. park, fames, o molin Metal asd pin vt th ou) ued Jon re 14 equi
shall be cche ar scpraicd and Bolaicd trom all Combist- men, de makings dito 1 110. 3HAK 3) tt nor be i df
Ble material quent roe by tte oso oer ai par a
140.9 Ligh and Power from Raum Conductors. Cicuistor "Sur" gufmrut ait pogrom.
lighing and prc sball noi be connected to any stem hat Information Note No, : ANS approved santa ate ude
contains rE rc sith a ground retrm. [orice perch peed
Exception: Such cit connections shal br perited in car houses, tol Nole 9.2: Th toto
eso sen and righe or cid con 5 IO lr,
Et ec are acini de a
0-08 [EE
Cooma HEPA. rsh io NEPA rs Access arn NOI or GG cosa or 7ICE
Fr cain on lA 8 ceo TO TJ sea me ERE REE


--- PAGINA SUCCESSIVA ---

ARTICLE 110 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS FOR ELECTRICALINSTALLATIONS rey
®) Field Applied Hazard Markings. Where couon,saming. 1103 Curent Transformers. Unis current iansiormers
or danger tard markings ach label or gn are elec  amocaisd ih porendally energica clic hah De short
By this Cote the marine shall meet the orang mre. neon
ments: 11624 Available Fauli Current.

(1 The marking shall be of scent durability to ian
the cneironment involved and war of the hams uctyg (A) Field Marking. Sccvice equipment at other than dwclling
miro ns all es the in Lh cla via ine alae a
or cure. The Fal arte all clo the date or. ol.
ee be ANSE Bsmt on E current aklaion mas pti and be of hein duca BI
tnd Rote No, Li Sex ANSE ZAN 2:MLL (RIOT) Eror can the cuvitonment mvc Toe clean shall
id ed Foy i gr nat ours ile dedi pe dovamenioa ana made amailabie do none autore 10
ia a ate Son nd oy E, deramend and made alae 10 the ano
ss; mab None No, Li Sce SEBS IL Smarr Hr
styl None Sn. 2: Sew ANS Z5574201L 2017. Pt i
ma Safty Sgro and Lab, hi desals the design. application, ee Be dio
Jomtien bier sree Seen in esr nd
v Coren engin came tn (1028 is rela! tre
The marking shal be pormancnily ald to the coup.  Svtobi altera Bi fone
ment or wiring method and shall not be hard witien. Coral Not Nx 2 Vl of va anh current far
Exim to (2 cos ft marking ft a sree a thy oe hi sped sian ie
ould be subj o changs: shel br premier br andor and (ILD RE en he
at ioghie
i ' ®) Modificaone. When modification to the electrical incak
116.22 Identification of Disconnecting Means. lation occur that affect the arallabbe fault current at the service,
(A) ener. Each disconnerting cane shall be legbly the ARABI fault cue Shall be veo o ocala ao
chet at pps we Ped and Rtg heey me rae equi mani age es
Tf ae aci foe on ful corto a oe emia ol the cr.
EE matking lic ihe ide nitication and eation ment. The toguiecd field markings) in 110248) shall be
of the circuit source that supplics the disconnoeting rans acusiodio cofleci the new level of available fault current
ot located and arangeri so the denon and location pion Tae fel marti Ps
ion: The pet wing rquirnenis in 10204) and
af the cll: sores Elbe The macking shall be of 100, stai tt et ent clon a ou
cient durability to itbetand the environmentintol tions of maintenance and Supervision. ensure that wy qualified
®) Engineered Series Combination Smuieme, Equpmort Amon wh squint
ee Bait or 0 esl) mp ce (10 ous, Diovennecing Meana Ul a dimen
sith series combination ang lected under CORRECT LC request lobo elo bh open chew In die Col €
supertision in accordance weh 24086) shall be legbly all be capable ol being Jocked in ihe Open position The
sciatto feta ar dice by dn occ bat oy 2 capable of beg locked in ae ope psn Toe
vir has hoc app sith a one compan rang, fy So EE
Toe racking shall ce the teguirementi in 110215 an
early ve an stato foo PO Loching provisioni Joy a cord.and plug ———
CAUTION — ENGINEERED SERIES COMBINATION tr quid to min in place without te oc dusted
STE RATED AMPERBS IDENTIMED REPLACE.
SENT COMPONENTS REQUIRED. Pari li. 1666 Volts Nominal, or Ken
(©) Tesied Series Combiamtion Syems, Equipment nel 1026 A ein Equipment Working space
irc fo co bce o te applied optics ty UG Spses ea erica Equipment Much ace,
the serics combination ating: marked on the oquipment by 37 maltainod abo ll Aca cuiprme it to per init coy
the manutacturee in accordance with 240 86(8) shall be kegibly  Snd safe operation and maintenance ol such equipment Open
che to ela to Inline cpr ba beenapplied 27 Si Peal a mame ance of uh cpiprment Open
with a series combination cating. The marking shall meet the i working space, Accesso: eros in impeded if one or more
mans HOS) and Hall Se au sare rng space, Actes or ens mpd one ar more
the following access to be less than 610 mm (24 in.) wide and 2.0 m (6% Et)
CAUTION — SERIES COMBINATION SYSTEM RATED high.
AMPEES (DENT HED KE PLACEMENT COMPONENTS
seria A) Working Space, Working space fo equipment operating at
enss ting pes Vor pc ong ergs
mt Woe Sc IEEE S0045201 Brandl rar nario, adit, seven oc Mmantenance mi:
To ivan Eo ke Cre kr iw we onengar shall compl wi the pensions a IDSA)
a Ts Wirt ares cast COR ANO), an ANA) of a copa i perimiot else
piri Go
mt ous See NEE TRA Sambar fo Bien col
Shs an ns RE
[A wn
Com IPA or cus a ar NEPA Fi cess ai bo be oor covet, ics
ae an oo a ean oe


--- PAGINA SUCCESSIVA ---

en ARTICLE 110 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS FOR ELECTRICAL INSTALLATIONS
tenia cmt, poo rk pies ding Elon So. Oa bunny am med on spe rc, to
i STIL RINE ee  ONDI ” he
PE ee
I Exim No. 2: in sing during ui, se it or
0D of Working Space. Toe pth of he mocking space aid pov dti da dol 29 ones hid
TRE Ee I SIN ted bts dr nd 20 ame lpm!
in Table 110.2660) 1) unkessthe requirements of 1026000) 71° i
Ga) MD) DE LN IE eo Bans all a
dala e mia bee Pare ae an MALIN on No Mens ht are old in me bes db
friend Fedo see nd ou i unc: To sec da
(a) Oration Assemblies, Working space shall not be °° "YU to foto thr resof ts srion.
co in dle ao ot nh kang Limi Arn, Where equipment operating a 1000 volt,
Melo rc me ane Sos whe ali bani tb gto Gt to cn
a all eve ene Soe ih es Spo E oe manine vpi nega i
ei ee oo eo ib han bk eed a Fe ar etn boca
ek mci) In pe wh tes hot olga
parts on the back ot enclosed equipment, a minimum hocizon: (3) Where equipment is installed above a by cailing, here
Bl'wockingspace ot 02 mm 9 in) Shall be prod Mali de an opening i os 5 ee 5 mr
{b} Low Voltage. Br special permission, smaller working. 2 in x 22 ind. ot in a cravd space, there shall be an
spaces shall be pecmitted wher all exposcd I parts operate accesible opening not smaller than 57% mm x 762 mm
ee ila #0 voli red eli eo hts i accesible poy
(©) Exiting Buildings. In existing buildings where cleciri. gy The width of the working space shall be the width of the
cal equipment & being replaccd, Condition working ckar- equipment enclosure or a minimum of 762 mm {30 in),
Gre al de al bog Rory upon exci
Foil owiehe gud pir, ll be pao
Foa sione de as em ah sth wr colo si O) Menlo dono bgt pare sali be capa 01
ane i spero coe Tt we procio ea Sega imam ol degrees a compl midi ihe
Bave boot prt 1 oki Squipiment on both det of io ep eng cl Table 1102000) Sok he
aisle trom being open at the same time and qualified persons neh iucted to the toot by lixod cabinets, walls, or parti
who are authorized will sevice the installation. tions, Space reductions in accordance with HO26(A)(1)
(2) Width of Working Space. The width of the working space ib) shall be permitted. The maximum height of the nck.
in tront of the electrical equipment shall be the width of the ing space shall be be height necesary to null the
pmo 05 ms GO ies [ean In ali Sipe dn dhe lio pace, Bona scl
ue e oc ace al er be Sree pig el mbes or aeree ane ll oe pe i
cre or space ak pri oe ete Joc of gh ne
eu dal de ci re mot el da Seah ore
©) Feigh of ork eo space shall be hae an tO or wa ene
ne Se, Te rhe gt i
2a m (6% 1) or the height of the cquipment, shichecer x (5) Separation From High Voltage Equipment, Where switches,
greater Web Bhe Boghi coon nta af die a he
Foo ot support te scorers palle es
‘ated with the electrical installation and located above or below Arc cxposcd lic parts or cxposcd wiring operating over
the clect ical equipment shall be permitted to extend not more 1007 volts, nominal, the high-vokage equipment stl be ofl oc
than 190 mm {6 in) beyond the rant ai the electrical equip. Yel separated from the space oceupicd by the kow-wltage
an I ya acon feo en
© Grade, Pow, or Working Piform. Toe grade, lon, oc
fiat testes rival Hoo
Table {16:26043(1) Working Spaces the toor, grade, or phttorm in the working space shall be as
ido SN Tyr} Md or ie ente ao dept aid
Sor Sm Ge oh A
ry mam Gees
cage  vawmt nm (9 Ciear Spaces, Working space coi by i section shall
Crimi Condition i Contin? Gontum3_ (1) SOT orge Wen me bn
0 SW GEO Wor (110 am OET SPO Linee on eeepc a dina
Pivot RH tow Rede albe aaa para
dio mn BE Em 12m E "
RT coe ies (©) Enc 10 and Eg rom Workin Space
Emad oe pr tet beaks) iim Rei At ot one aan. of sulicioni
nA ie I A gh i A oe po gt
elfetiely gated by nealing miei ib. 1 space abet 2 cour
Condition 2 — Expomed live parts on one side of the working space and {2 Large Equipment For large equipment that contains over
rood parison the other side of the working space. Comare current deviees switching devices, or control devices, there
fick. or tile walls all be commend grander shall be one entrance to and cgress irom the cequited working.
Condition $ — Esponcd line part on beat ees of the wurbing space. space not less than 610 mm £4 ind wide and 26 m (6% E


--- PAGINA SUCCESSIVA ---

ARTICLE 110 — GENERAL REQUIREMENTS FOR ELECTRICALINSTALLATIONS er
bigh at cach end of the working space. This requirement shall (0) Poripy Stems. The acca abose the dedicated space
apoly to cliberot the following sonditione cequesa by HOZAEY 1) Shall be permiticd 10 contain
(i) For eoumeni cate 130 amperes Gr more and oxee fottign sem provided protection 7 ingalke to avd

epr per mg el coe for cova, Fa
0) For ore deconnocting means istallod in accordance OF becaks in such occign irs.
wih 20 IN) Where he combed ampere mig i fc) Sprinkby Potretion, Sprinkder protection shall be
1200 arperes or mere and where the combined widih + PoE for he dedicated space where the piping complies
ov 18m Bi 0) Suspended Coings. A dropped, suspended, or simi
A single cutrance to and cgrem from the required working cling tha docs noi add atengib to the AMIN SAN
space sali be perminea where ckhes of the” conditione n shall ho be considered a sruetural cong
ets dee Where the location pects a @) Onidoor Outdoor installations shall comply with
continuous and lnobsiruaed way of egress vel a single 110 2A0E)ZIa) dough (E) 2 (e).
a a e (a) ination. Reguimmints, Outdoor cloccal quip:
To Tas Waring Sars. Where he depih of the wockng met shale he olwing:
space & tic tht requ LISA) (1) a single cottance (I) allo i ocd relosuces
all be pected. lr shall be located such that the dance) Protected from sccdental contact by unauthorised
from the Sip to dhe nare Cage, i the ETAT lr hk personnel by vehicular lc
lese than the minimum kat distance speciica in Table (5) protected rom accidental plage or leakage from piping
MOZ6IALI) for equipment operarig at that voltage and in stenza
that condition To OPTARE pi i) Wok Space The working dearance spacc shall
include the sone dexaibed In 110263). No atchitoctural
® Permonnel Doors Where equipment hm apes 0 appurtenance or other equipment shall be located in this zone.
more that contalne Geereurteni oie, ching device, of tenace of other couipment shall be kocated in the ron.
Coral deve: riod and inere 13 perso Roe] Ao ot tS Spe. The spac egual to the
intended for entrance to and cgress from the working space lo ahcight ol Lim {fi above the equipment hall be dedi
less than 76 m (23 1 fiom he peace cage of e soring SEE Am tO dhe he a
cata 16 he elet inaliation. No ping 0 other Sip.
space, the doors) shall open at least 90 degrees in the dict ent faccign to the electrical installation shall be located in
tion of cgress and be equipped wi listo panic hardvare or Miao"
le irc exit bareimare.
omnia Soi See CL 308. Simbad For Pane Mtns, Stu coho ro xv stalt de emi in
Todo] raion CL 10
Stat yf Poston Bs For os one iris (F) Locked Eecical Equipment Rooms or Enciosures, Ele
Ferdi orm mtn sem vty in Src appa
D) Miumination. Illumination shall be provided for all work: atts that are controlled by a lockis) shall be considered
ing spaces about service equipment, evitchboards, switchgear, accessible to qualiicd pervons.
clog panchoards, or motor conzal emer Insabed tio Pare
indoors. Control by automatic means shall not be permitted to 11927 Guardiogof Live
control all illumination within the workig pact, Addormt (A) Live Pats Guarded Aino Accidental Contact. Except as
Ngtting outlets shal not be tequised where (he work space is ewes required or pao by tis Code Ie parts of ch.
re by an adacent light UTE or as pemica by ma) eouipmeni operating at 50 0 1000 volts, nora shall be
IIA 1. Excepuon No, 1. foramliched cocpiader. res pe fe
E) Dedicated Equipment Space. All scrvice oquipmeny,  Pyany Of the following means
svitehboarde setchgca. panclhoaids, and motor control (1 By loin ina room, saul. of simile enclose that is
“enter: shall be Toca in dedicated paces ana precio from atecsible only to gualiicd persons
mage by permanent, ubsanial partion or secche arcanged
50 bat oly yale) pecons have access 10 the space
Excprion: Contro equipment ha byt veri ata or bcs of ther iin coach of 1 Bec pans, Ang opening in such patti
res of the Code must be aiacent to or within sight of #5 opmating tions or serccns shall be sizcd and located so that porone
machinery shalt he prvaited in those locations. are not likely to come into accidental contact with the live
4) Indoor, Indoor installations shall comple with 1OZACE) pacs 0 to being conducting objec Into contact wih
{1)fa) through (EIA). them.
et Mara! Sor The space coual io the wicks (9) By location on balcony. gallery, or platform cyan
and depth of the equipment and extending from the [bor to a arranged so astocxclide ungualifiod persons.
Beighi of 1A m 810 above the equipment orto dhe srt) (1) By ovation above the Toor Or other working surface as
ceiling, mhicherer © bower, shall be dedicated to the ekatriaal fol:
inallaion. No piping duc. Ica protection ppt of A minimum of 23 m 8 E) for 30 voli to 00 sols
aber couiprmcal foreign to he cock cal weallaphn sali De Between ungrounded conduce
Varn ts sone b. A minimum of 26 m (A ft @ in) for 501 volts to
600 volts bene mgr conduttore
Expo: Suprnded cling uith coats panes shall be peritd ©. A mmm oF £m 5 67 ind for 604 volti 10
wid the 1.8 i 6 ft) so. 1000 volts bermecn ungrounded conductors
resto SAUNA ELECTRICAL CODE 106
Copri HEPA. rsh sue cr NEPA Frog Access arn NOI or GG cosa or gnrteg
For cain on lA 8 5 TO TJ sea me ERE REE


--- PAGINA SUCCESSIVA ---

ue ARTICLE 110 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS FOR ELECTRICALINSTALIATIONS
@® Prevent Fisica Damage. In bcations here cleetrical  pullout svitches, portable power distribution equipment, terni
opin Tel to be esposea to phusical damage. catia. matin boxes ger pie efor cook
Suoi or guard: shall be so ange and ol such eh act ler Bice pump maior amd motor controller, ind tot are
prevent ch damage 1000 vol normal ar intendo tor suc dota ona, shall be
i e marked sith an Sloe pe Mme as son dn Table
(©) Warning Signs. Entrances to rooms and other guardo Torn
ications that contain exposca Ic parts shall be macicd ith
conspiruone wt, Sans dg wih person Table 11028 shall be use tor selecting these endosures tor
ente. The marking shall meet the requirements In HOZI{B). 1c in specie hations othe than haart clarilied loca»
110,28 Enclose Types. Enclsures (other than surrounding ong de cnelocures are wot tended to protect against
fences or walls covered in 110.51) of swwchboacds, avitchgear, | IY FEA occur mila the enclosare or enter via the
ores pancboaas bal Sol pan, motor opel ion hat may accu nab
centers, meter sackets, enclosed switches, transfer switches, pening:
Ponce te. cen sake adjamabie.iporti date Sr
‘Table 110.28 Enciosare Selection
— mee
Providers Degree ot Prowection gost CocowseTypeNember
e Palomar Envieoamennii Codici 3 WM 3 Www wx 1 @ + @
[or oomac miti e chile Xx x x x x x x x x
pions
Kase x x ox x x x x x x x
Sec Fo
Wnt x I ¥ x I ¥ OR OR % x
Bocdvo x ZE Oz Rox ox x
Come ager III RO i Ro 2 x
Eres ameno ZIO OX i Xx ZO OR x
front Avie ZI LI I pe pe pS x
For indoor Une
Protea Degree ot Prec Agunt —_ CocomTeNamier
de Folovisttartoamensi Coni 12 4 @ ss ww ww
[or————— Xx x x x x x x x x
pony
nga x x ox x x x x x x x
Fling nit ana sping LT TE TT
pontine SR SE A SE SS EO
Siamese = ZX kx kx ox kk
is
prcdoni asd spaing mne = x x x x
Lp ZI ZO x x
dirai ~~ — — ZZ — 2 2%
prin) ZZ x ZZ x Z = *
np oes YZ x ok ZZ =
frome ee ee Se
Th mex Sl eee RE ered
oy The term mena
Bon mein tana ima wane Tage SR an SAS Pe ia pamraglt shy att 1 rn mi Emi Fan 500
Ter to tn ee vse hE lore Tes 2 BR ao 5 The en. moe sk di ed ia
Coin Eo ear, A ASK... 5 56.08 12 IK and 5
mnt ok No: Ser ANSULEG 60529. lm of Pron Fit 5 Eb ono prote. do (IE) eins.
koma Sete No. 8: See #02 31 0. 50. ARB 5 4H Tor oa o dhe oo eg ene in
ato ion
tm Se 1 Some cnt pes hs 2K oe ex re bem at an airy ET corombv ant
rade pleront bo
ima Soe Ko Bog xb. a be arto ol
ma Nae Ko: Se CLA Sorbo 1 eed rd Pro Ft sion demining ple requirement for cobsing
ue 4% ava emt enn
tornato sal Sane No. Tee NEVA. sts pr irre Eppes (1000 ms forte don fe Ere Toe Rag
en fo Pe a
wm [UE —
Dogi EPA. ore ve ce VT Fog cess afr Ft oor sours, nrc
Forres Solos i Ca por PAUP et ate Sora SGI OF


--- PAGINA SUCCESSIVA ---

ARTICLE 110 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS FOR ELECTRICAL INSTALLATIONS fren
110.29 In Sight From (tin Sight From, Win Sigh. Excpton i (1), (ZI, and (71: Wem do cat i pic with ast
Where the Ca specifes hat anc equipment shal be “in Aghi mate ET, avi spray, carton Alea, or Salon. con
from: “vathin sigh from, of vin sight OF ance equip. atta a Lior ng hl by Pri
ere, de sped Cyngor Shall bhi and noi Moie nda
er sh rip pnt © Locks. Doors tall be equipped wah locks, and doves shall
be kept Rocke, mil access allovegd only io ake per
Versonnel doors shall open at Wat 90 degroct in he diccetion
pan HI, Over 1606 Volts, Nomi FEAT: equipped viti od pane reo
as ena Con nd Coupon wed on cru formation] Nokes Sc UL 30, Sendo fr Fone Horr. for
100 solo nominal shall comply wih Pa ce Codon rion and ULIOC Sot foro fo Fon
and with 11030 trough 110.11, heh supploment ox molly Joon lon and ELIO
Fart L In no asc sal this pac apply 10 equipment on she
Supply side i pel (5) Trandormers, Where a mansformer i installed in a sak
(10.5 Enclosure For Electrical Insiallations. Electrical sta 5g by Part IL of Ariel 190, he sal shall be conse
ation In vais, oom. or closer or in an rca surroundedibr a
val tarcen, or fonte accese to which & controled bra ock(s) Information Note No, Li See ANSI/ASTNI E1520, Medd
oi approved means, shall be considero im be ce eB Comte on Mina dot aio
to qualia persons nk. The spe of She acd ina given losin and see REA AO2019, evar or Fim en 0
care sali be designed and consiucton according oh range OU Oper Poerio
and degree of the hazard x) avochtca ab the Installation, Demon Note No, 2 A tied Shoo constogion i
For installations other than cquipment as described in 150m 610) Dk lef tic on wie
11030). a walk sre of fence hall be wood io enclose an (8) Indoor installazione.
outdoor ckettical nstallalion to deter accese by pre who
are o quale A cs shall not de lov dan 2A E in (1 In Places Accasbl to read Persons, ido ele.
height or a combination of 18 m (6 ft) or more of fence fabric iy it Te i Ap Io unqualified perons
Shah be made wth metalenchacd Cpe. Smilchgea
anda inn mm {I ft] or moce extension wilaing thse oc mare ol be made wah metalenchied cquipment, Swichgear
sir of bathed wc or oggitalent, The dance from the LCCC lee, men: shall be marked nh appropriate caurtion
fone of pars hal be roo rangi Took 14 eocetodoqlpmen shall, marked vib sprog cation
Loos Note: See ANSUAEEE R01. Nand crt oping in other equipment shall be designed so that foreign
Si Gud ol anu of cba Tor wach sei objects meee through these opening are delle rom
age ma np ri Sree parto
(a) Eectical Vis, Where an cei cau è required oF d@ [n Places Accessible. 10 Qualified Persons Onl. Indoor
specified for conductors and equipment HASAN 19 oleetrical installations considered accessible only to qualiicd
{A)(5) shall apply. persons in accordance wii this section shall comply with
(1) Walls and Roof. The walls and roof shall be constructed of 1134, 11.86, and 19521
Marcial ha hac adeguate Tatra) STEVE for the condi: (©) Cuidose Extallations.
tone, vi a minimum fre cating of 3 hour: bor the put pere
of this toction, sue and valbnata construction shall not be (1) In Places Accessible to Unqualified Persona, Goo cloc.
mien Tal Insalladons dar ate open to unqualiaca persons sll
pe comple viti Par IL AREA
@ Floors. The floas of sans In contact siti dhe cacy shall i
be of cone hat ls no less than 102 mm (in) thick, but (2) In Places Accessibile 10 Qualified Persons Only. Outdoor
Where mh l* consiracied ih a an space of other  cieetral insalatione that have erposcd [nc pace hal be
stories below it, the floor shall have adequate structural accessibc to quakied persons only in accordance with the fist
cent for the rad impose] on t and a mia fire cise Paragraph of th section and shall comply wah 11939, 11036,
I hac, End 49024,
(8) Door. Each doccvay kadng into a aul from the build. (D) Enclosed Equipment Accemible 10 Onquatfed Persons.
ing interior shall be provided with a tighetitting door that has a Ventilating or similar openings in coupment shall be designed
minimum fico rating of 3 hours, The authority avg jedi. such hat forcign objects inserted through these openings are
ton shall be poem to require such a door for an Sxterior ASIC fom encegaead parts. Where. espose to pinsical
ll opening where condiuoni sean. damage from vchicular wai, suitab guards cha be proce
“ded Equipe: local dor and accemible to unquatfica
persona hall be SESE sith at expen nutre bos
Table (16.31 Minimum Distance from Fence fo Live Parts cannot be readily remove, pormitting accese to lie parts.
here couipmen; isaccemib lo unqualica persons and tx
VE PRA FA ea battomal ti enelonie e less han 29 m (REL above tir lor
Minimum Distance folie Parts or grade kych. ibecndonuire door orhingedcorersball be kept
Nomina olage n LI iocked Boars and ars of endosurer used solely as pull
Fr pre Im bones pl bones, or Junction boxes shall be eke, Be
mime sm " or Seivuca on. Underground. box cores a weigh. over
ver inom say w
SES ANAL ELECTRICAL nn
Copri HEPA Sorgacuma so NEPA rs Access afr Nol or iil cos vic
Fr cain on le 8 Geo 0 isa me CRE EEE


--- PAGINA SUCCESSIVA ---

tes ARTICLE 110 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS FOR ELECTRICAL INSTALLATIONS
5: hg 190 by hall be considered a meeting this require. ment inal on pao, bakonics, or mezzanine lors or
ment in atic or soot rooms of spa
110.52 Work Space Aboui Equiponeni, Suicicnt space shallbc 16.38 Work Space and Guardiog
prode ant amb abi ic pup pr ope
ceadyand sale operation and mantenance of tach equipment (4) Working Space, Except as cheers coquired ot pocitied
pd and le operation ad e e of uch Pe in dit Coe pment Mc to fee examination, ad:
space hall be not stan £1 (54 1) bigh (measured certi MERE, toreicing, or maininance whi energie shall Fe
calls from the flor or platform) and the wh of the equip: PEA VOR space i the direation of ame to Ine pars
ment of 911 mm (3 6) wide {measured parallel to the be clovtical cquipment and shall be not n specifica in
Table 11034A). Dances shall be measured from the Ins
equipment), whichever ds greater, The depth shall be ar parts, LL or fom the coders ont or aper
coquisd in 1A SUA), In all care, the work space shall permit Pact il ich are cxporcd, or from the o onto oper
at least a fi dlegrec opening of dors of hinged panels Within 178 if such arc endosed The grade, floor, or platform in ti
the height cequirements of thi section, other equipment that (CEH working space shall be kept dear, and the tioor,
is awociatcd with the ckatrial instalation and is located above grade, or platform in the working space shall be as lexcland
or hob the ekerrital equioment tali be permine to cxtena fa a practical for the ii depih and ih of th working
hot more than IP mm (6 (n) beyond the front of the coe. PC
cal equipment. Working spac coquired by thi section shall het Excpion: Woking space shall not be inguine in duck of equipment
Fe mex for storage, When normaly ick Ine parte att such sho bond oral ie dear no Tt
exposed for inspection or scrvicing, the working space, € ina uate parte such as fuws or vices) on che bach and wher all
ego oF Fenton space, Shall bo Stab FURL + fone ar SAH Pam locations atto on ito back, Wh iar
aree to Eelosaia and Access to shocking Spese, 75 8 UA oan THB posts on 0 darti of td
MOSS E Enclosares and. Working Sp: equipment, a minimum orking space of 762 ym (30 in. for Sontatly
(A) Entrance. A: least onc entra toenchrures for ckarial | SM poviard
installations as described in 1H or kes than 610 rara
{21 in.) wide and 24 m (5% ft) high shall be provided to ghe briga cigni natia at dot hel sitchen
access to the working space about cleeical equipment Ge lens ace Ikea In a al, oor Enclosure where there
‘Open equipment doors shal not impede acces 10 and ato exposed fue parts or cipostd ug operaling at over
egret working spare Access of aes lt pede f 10 voli, oman the high sag squiprmeni sal be coe
he ox mate simutancouti opened equipment door restrict Ivey separated from the pace occupied by he lowsolage
working space accor 1 be less than GIA mm (1m) vide and equipment by a sutable partition, fonte, or screen.
20m (94 £0 high Exception: Switches or othr equipment opevating at HONK! volts, mani
dl Large Equipment. On swichgeac and contol pancls Wh 0s and sing onl Apdfmen whi te Highsetiagy sot,
Sedia EE i din ere sali be Snc onanec ai os or in hl rated tal 1 ERIS
Cath end of ne equipment. A Single cutraice to he required bau, mon, or nkosi pon. fra, or sereni re
socking space shall be porto Where sith of tho odi. 1 ute prrionz on.
ron Ca) E Me ion promis a (©) Locked Rooms or Enclosures The enirance to all build:
continuous and unobrueiod way of exit mali a single WEF, ut rooms, or enelosure containing expored Live parte
Aira lo the working space shall be perio DE, gnpord conductors operating at over 701 vols, nomi?
I gute More Sena aes deb af the work hb op earth hes eu dhe alt:
space is twice that required by 11A34A), a single crecance 219% of a qualilica person at all time:
Pali be premio. li tali be io) ms tha the ance from
the equipment io the teak ope of the entrance in ot less . i
tan the minima ce omega in Table 110, ble L634) Minimum Dept of Clear Viking Space at
forequipment operatingat ihatroltage and in ttarcondivon. Electrical Equipment
2) Cuardiog. Where bare cnecgirod parts at any voltage dc Noma Mmm Gi Ban
insulted enetgiea pars be Ho voli nomina, arc loca Vane E
(ohare touch nirance ey sali be SMP Fired Ground Coston! Coston? Condiion 8
8) Personnel Doors, Where there are pervomel doors inten WILEY Mum SRI Zam TI Low Gira
oa o enne a agro bom deine pae Tost Lown Limon Om CO
han TOM € 10 from the ncatesi cage of ne working ace, JMLEOWMY  LmGfa Lame mon
than 7m (20 from the hes, cg of he wos a TWAT Dien neh swim
be done hl open at east dope in die dean of UHR Jn dol Sule
macaw Rowe th coi ae wie
ee CL mtr te ft o oon Enna pur nee of he euri spec and
UE LA tn mica on ee det hero
hn ra od CL lE porci te reo he rie alare
Het ted dain material
1 Access. Pcrmancni ladder or staiorays shall be provid Coon 2 Enna ne put nn eof the mrking ys ant
logie safe acces to the CEN space around electrical equip: fauna pa ile ih I of he saree Comrie
ar wala sani road
Colin 8 Expats part on bl Sof rinses.
on NALELSCTRAL ESE
Cooma HEPA. rsh io NEPA rs Access arn NOI or GG cosa or 7ICE
Fr cain on lA 8 ceo TO TJ sea me ERE REE


--- PAGINA SUCCESSIVA ---

ARTICLE 110 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS FORELECTRICALINSTALLATIONS tess
Fecmancnt and conspicuous danger signs shall be provided. 116.81 tnpectons and Tees
“The danger sign shall ect the requirement in 1.218) and i
The danger sign sha al (A) Precnecgasion and Operating Test. Where coquired
chenbese in this Code the complet chil matera design
DANGER — GH VOLTAGE — KEEP OUT including sevungs fo. provecise, ching. and. control
©) Mamioation, Mlumnation shal be provided for all work Soot P28 be Pea in shane and made ea
ing sparc about choi couipmeni. Control by automatic SR Pe authori
meant ly shall not be pecca The lighting outils shall be
Sosa o mt person changing tor marg cn (8 Tos Regan A ton pon mcr Be ce ct the ter
equipment nerf ee pai Jurlsdiction prio to encegitation and made atailabie 10 hors
The points of control shall be located so that persons are not 240720 to install operate, test, and maintain the system
icy to come in contact with any live part af moving part of
he Some Mh Laing on dic hgh Par PV. Tunnei Eastallations over 1600 Volte N
€) Elevation of Unguarded Live Part. Ungeacded live parts cen
abose working, space shall be maintained at elesations not less USSL hi
Than cequecdby Table IDE) (A) Covered. This part shall apps to the installation and use
of bighrolage poner distribulion and wization equipment
{P) Protection of Sersice Equipment, Svidhgar, and [odi hat i portable. mobile, ac both. such as substatione, Hades
vini Contro! Assemblien, Mps ds foreign 0 ine ho. C1 mobile hee egies, boia, dall, hoage, compe:
cal installation and roping petiodic maintenance oc n Eo. pumps, consevor, pert cxeanal ore, and ile Hee
malancion would endanger the operation ef the ekemial
stem shall no! be iocatedin the SE of the Sere sip. (8) Protection Agninni Physical Conductor and
ent, ittbgrar ot imdusral conta] anemie Moncia aber in tunaele ay df epee oui
ha be provided bere necenary to avoid damage from pace or guarded to protect her fom physical damage.
condensalion kale and breaks n ih forcign sisters. Fi
and other facilities shall not be consideccd fotcin il provided 105% Orerurens Protection Moor pera CP
for fre protection of the clerical installation, HL AY, and Y of Article 180 Transformers shall be protected
118.36 Gireuii Condurtore. Circu cordon. shall bepormak: Bom RFU ant accordance sli 190
sod 10 be mealed In rap in Cable Tags as mae
cable Type MA al bare we, cable, and ashore or as Tope MY 11453 Conductors tigh voltage sndutor in tunnels shall
blero conductors prod in 303.3, 59. M08. and Jor orator cable Suiliconducior portable bn
i i i be ce comply with om na Sali be permitted to supply mobile cape
slats, together with he moaning and conductor
attachments, where uscd as supports for wires, singlsconductor 11654 Bonding and Equipmeni Grounding Conductors.
cables, or binbars, shall be capable of sly vGastanding he (A) Grounded and Bonded AL non-cuctent carrying metal
Maximum magncic lors ot would PLO i Mo or More Car af eee st al ali el sry a onl
conduciorr of 3 EC vete SEIS 0 SHORE current. esile tali e soll orme ant pb mt ara pine
Exposed rune of insulated wires and cables that have a bare And rails at the portal and at intersale not excceding 30 m
Icad sheath or a braided outer covering shal be supported ina (10 (0) throughout the tunnel
manne: designed to even: pial dammge to (he Bat OF (by Equipment Grounding Conductors An equipment
ora Support fo aon 0d ab ral be designa to Je conductor al on ali Seul Sdi
prevent electrolysis of the sheath. inside the metal away or inside the multiconductor cable
110,40 Temperarare Limitstions al Terminations. Conductors Ackct The cquipment grounding conductor shal be peamt-
shall be pormitied to be terminated based on the STC (194°) 1 lo be insulated or bare.
temperature cating and ampacky as given in Table $156MC) 11055 Transformers, Switches, and Electrical Equipment. All
rough Table 315 90C 20, unless oibervise IdentiBe  imandlormere, sche, Motor SORTOIRr macari rece
and aller erent Intallca belowgeound shall be protected
from passi damage br location or gintding ©
11656 Enegiaed Parts. Gare torminals of tanformers,
Tile 118.54) Elevation of O nguardea Live Parts Above vache, motor cones, and other equipment shall be
Working Space clad prevent cadens) conuaa nah gre parte
11057 Yenseton Sysem Controls, Elcetcical controle fo the
Nomina Voltage eve  enlation stem shall be arranged so that the aicflow can be
crag
poseoiion a I esere
tia E I) (1658 Disconnecting Means. A witch oc circuit brcaker that
son in cane opens al ungrounded eonduciort of he crark
Geri Mdm MST shall be Rall thin signi of cach manor of motor
—_— deb eB location for disconnecting the ransiormor or motor. The
destin ANAL EEA 1073
Copri HEPA. rsh sue cr NEPA Frog Access arn NOI or GG cosa or gnrteg
Forres Solos i Ca por PAUP et 4 Sora SGI OF


--- PAGINA SUCCESSIVA ---

re ARTICLE 110 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS FOR ELECTRICAL INSTALLATIONS
ach or cecut breaker for a wanformes shall fase an asogaicd coguirements i 1034 shall be met. A markole
pete ting not le than die arp of the Thott are ope hai weigh ver 154k 100 lb) shall be conti.
Be Eph a pn Sl semi a a Reet
ee 01 Vari BC eaten, cone molt in
Ace di manholes and other enclosures intended for personne] entry
11039 Eactotve. Enciosures fo ce in cls shll be drip. Shall be cablod, ake up, or aan In aprons amis
orgeeimeretpsmsichalito ri bo de mit hat provider end aid Amol tsi tie for
Fone condoni. Sach or contadior Snot all noi nto and Ramis The besa all comple
be cd as Jeon Boxe of a eva oc olor feed: mi 10TH) or 1107408) ai applicable
dg oa or topping ol vo odo eben nie de coe.
og hough oc apes (A) 1000 Volts, Nominal, or Less. Wire bending space for
] Socios operat at 1007 voli o less shal be rata T0
sere
Pari. Manbobes and Other Electrical Encioaures fended (8) Over £006 Volla, Nominal. Conductors operating at vee
For Personnel Entry 0 voi shall be prose wih being pate in accordance
11070 General, Electrical onclostees intended for personne] WE $14.73A) and (8), asappiicable.
entry and speciicaliy aime fo 1s purpose sali be of Eup: Wa 314.18) aggio, at rm or column of es on
salient sac to prove safe work space about chttcal oquip: ows wal of the loca shall b cali ind, and The
en Ive pato Yi ot aon sue one rte shall be coledted diy nd
ment, sii or mama ah gel shh ol
totes shall base sch Sve to per co Installation
aa of es condacioni capiva sis damage 10 1875 Acceso Manhae.
he conduttori of he mado Tocs al ong wi
: (4) Dimensions tectangube accese openings shall no be less
th part than 551 mem * 850 mem {26 in 2 in J. und acecss opere
tion: Wim desi omar cem by Pani Vf ths ale ng In a mahal sali be not ess tha 80 men 50 my Tn
ry nda ina pr pm a nn snes
patire and spon at af OF) UAE PONE pi: A mol tho sad eC ds ct ss the
Te Er Sie A ta tt fo er ht ett te
and slid in sconce with oppiopriote suginering practice. yf LEE mine Go mini mam coro diamaterto Gi ma (31:
und 3 ite ny Aen Jabs. dog wrt
i ed 41) Opa atin
fr ry P———
L101 Strength babes, sal, and thie eae of accese fort
shall be designed ande quid ecg Sipe Son and (3) ge. ls Trenton and sgn cub, or th,
hm lied ogiechs sense 01 Gad Ges moist on spat
ab oe Ser ANSI 20. ert Por 5 racine. Manbole openings shall be fico of pre
Lp Soc SN Oo Sticky (5) Obaractione able opening shall be fc of p
capested wr bear on andergroud adres. ues pers pi pa
© Location. Manhole apenings for personnel shall be loca.
11072 Cabliog Work Space, cla work space no: ls than
300 men (310 Satie Shall be prode mere cables are oro id bere hey are not decals abore lel equipmeni oc
‘on both sides, and not les tha, 150 G2 fo) were clo
both sides anole Man 70m (2 £0 here cables Sher aproscatie oe ladder shall be ron.
Tan 1A m @ 10 unless th apeningi mibin 200 mm 1 (D) Covers, Covers shall be awe 5 bg (10 or hens
mes hort of te sacri Interior sie WANT old 1 spare te e oF ook To open They Sali be
pms ie or cba so es cam al ilo ine rho
acd sls 10 oat shal Coro a ca
Ecoption: A manhole containing onty on ar mom of the following Pree subclone wip
Sab etd at of soil ut stare msn
cb a mn 1) wh ir bom cha uo BAA (E) Marking, Manhole covcr shall hve an ding mark
sds ram of uo dimensions i mo Ins than 1 8 MIO A olga prominendy abs dh function oh oe
(1 Opa ater a
5) Purim dr tam re td ta scl sith (478 Actos md Tine
(31 Goti do Gs 7 mec an signaling cri or bh, (43 Location Aces apenings fo personnel shal be located
protien 32560 hte they art wo eo abot octal upon of
11073 Equipment Work Space, Where eeacial equipment id sei equipmeni lo sbi lella gori, maintenance, or
bc parte tat key fo emi marinato me, o n to fc
iting. or malntenace bile eager eed In è
Gdo. vault or ott enor, duce for posal (BY Locks tn addition to compliance wii the copies of
ceci, do or space and scar teh TW IDNA. IF appicable, accesi opens ot personni shall be
Shall be met for ofr: operating at 1A voli ls, Avani sich at a genon n the Inside can exit ben the
bere the insallation is avee 1 voi the work space and acces done in ok form dhe oH. or in die cme of
pe [RE p——
Com IEPA. For cs seo EPA Fi cess ai bo be oor covet, ics
a aes aan oo. was ean oe


--- PAGINA SUCCESSIVA ---

ARTICLE 110 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS FORELECTRICALINSTALLATIONS en
orally locking by padlock, the locking arrangement shall be (14.78 Guarding Where conductors or equipment, or bach,
such that the padiock can be closed on the locking ssem to could be contacto by objet falling or being pushed through

cent locking from the outside, a venilating grating, boch conductors and fe parts shall be
Fon Somes oe ro. tunnel and vals faye PICO IN accondaee ah the tequirements of TIP ZAA)
communicating openings into endosed areas used by the (2) O 113106) (33, depending on the soltage
public, ventilation to open aie shall be provided whrecect eae. 114.79 Fsed Ladder. Fixed laddecs shal be corcosion cost
Fab an
DRA NANA ELECTRA CODE 107
Copan NEPA Zor silane ase cr EPA Aree Access ator NOI dr Gul cr cour BRGrg or rice
aan conati BAC a eB oro 158 C180 GR 08 ce


--- PAGINA SUCCESSIVA ---

SHAFTER? AKTIGLE 00 USE AND IDENTIFICATION OF GROUNDED CONDUCTORS
Chapter 2 Wiring and Protection
tetto) by site a, cable a seas i a fras
ARTICLE 200 ocio ii i entlanare
Use and Identification of Grounded Bon a The eo rn ig stat net
Conducors A bn es i fond
pon So 2 Tie ptm or going ring i ar
2001 Scope, Ths aride pros coquisemeni for hs llr aon DO TIL Jo png ening a
pe rr piuror
[HT —— peti
Fy i SE oo de -
© entification of grounded conductors 2665 Meansof Kentifyiag Gr
y (41 Sie 6 AWG cr Shr. The ion, of goed
bi Nor: Ser Md A Cte roy RAG 08 wl dti De ened Ty ono
pos pean
ot oy wn) Acme mbe aver Gist
2002 General Gord nico shall comply wih {ALIS ina
i 8 REESE spes along the oe
(A) oman. The ded concn, 1 cdl © tose agonist
feet ep
(1) 15 ably cae, other than cob, for any ungrounded ace thicads in the braid identibing the source of
Comte of same ck ut for ster of 1 sole of manufacture
on ; Be sesta odore et ate
er a ar em Tl
eo ein wy Ep a Beret yon Chl be
Jp Ey er a ee
Api acco dana Pe SAREL brani PDL
() Comins. The continua of rudd condo shall (9 To poy ono 15 Mineral nato, mt
io dop o a aa a al ione oa Arabo cib joe MO sal Wao Gine
mdm Red ns Sepa tbe 7
Inforamstional Kote: See WALIHBY for the womiinat of groan foonhatians The marking shall encircle the conductor
et factors used in mkinine branches ©) Fixtuce wire shall comply with the coquiccmenss for
2003 Cones 10 Grounded Sym. Ginandedeondutori Hac sondazior deticalon Share iù
frie euiigum ol AE
cipro: og rota ih STMT hp cable the Honiton shal oly wi ne
Eh Eo SR mim Dl eo fragile ipl
ER PIES ei pac led on die ht aio
ooo em Spit fom Be
induced arrents. (B) Sims 4 AWG or Larger, An insulated grounded conductor
Capon: sol misc ur dno owe dues AO ox ene a a Hose by ape el Te
en som he at ot pr Tan
tara wet oon og in en) Aspe oe
indudes a prvanded conturtor: {8) Threc continuous whke or gray stripes along the entice
200.4 Newiral  Condudors, Neutal conductors shall be lengih on other than green insulatio n.
20s Nr Comair veal cone o Ne que EE ie by dive
pilasters ali
0 Insialtaion, Neural conto hal wot be od or Sohne eo es
ha ale
fre thn ov branch cecal fox mote (an one SS Fievible Corda An red oir tht fs ded
conduttors unbess specifically poe mated kewhere in nis Cate. FOF use as a grounded conduct, where contained within a
Rublo co eno ae or ine
dil Ke Sr 218,4 fo lr cm SER rt le oid by
fit
(© Mate Git, Voce mere than oe nl cone, 2, 00d, Conductor of Differ omit ge
Rogtpairicrot ileus
an ches ope pe, Steria coos of det meal oboe
na Soh een so pen ac alsin te same cv, ale bos. and
eo ed Sr one
ow FRR.


--- PAGINA SUCCESSIVA ---

AKTICLE 0 — USE AND IDENTIFICATION OF GROUNDED CONDUCTORS we
shall be identifica by nominal voltage yen. Kentibication conduc by marking tape, painting. or other cca
hat disinguisbes cach nominal vollage stem grounded means ai lt termination and at cach locaon bere the
conducior shall be pL br one af he following means: nico is visible and acessible, identification shall
(1) Onc nominal vokage system grounded conductor shall encircle the insulation and shall be a color other than

have an outer covering conforming to 206A) or (8). white, gray, or green. if uscd for single-pok:, Sway or
(2) The groundod conductor) of Sher nominal voliage sich loops the eli condurior 1h whic
tes shall ve a lore outer covering conformin oc gray, insulation oc three continuous whee oc gray
to MOLA) or (8) or by an owt covering of whic or stripes shal be isd only far che supply o de ic but
gop with 3 disingushable colored spe other tan ia A flexible cord having one condor identibed by a
green running along de insulation. white or gras outer inh or three continuous white or
(Omer and aileceni means of Hentitiation awed by 5
HBA) ox (8) shall ditingush cach nominal voltage gran stripes, or by an other means In agcordanee with
A) chal di SEE. a Fo conncaing an Spl of Sip.
ment in accordance wh 40010. Ti shall pl to dest
The means of identification shall be documented in a ble cord: connected to oles eso ac noi te outer
manne at Is cack atailabic oc shall be permanent posted is supplied bra circuit thal has a groundcdconduor.
where the conductars of decent nominal vokage systems orig. Efimmational Note: The susbor gras nin have been wed in the
nate. Imi a ati wig rounded wo nductor, Care should be taken when
(E) Grounded Conductors of Multiconduor Cables The rbingon cumin sic.
insulatcd grounded conduciorts) in a muliconducior able icons of Identification of Terminals, in devices ox
shall be Ric by a continuo us white or gravouter fina OF aim Ci ae MI oa ae are eri
by these coninuon bite or gear spes on diber han green oi E ee ee
insulation along its catire length. For conductors that arc connected shall be white or sikcr in color. The identification of
ANG or larger in cables identification of the grounded other temurais shall be ola distinguishabie diflereni color
conducior shal be perito to comple wih ZORA. For
multiconduaor Ibi cable with conducior sha are 1 AWG or Exper f ie conditioni of maluiraner and spin sur
x. an excel Gage shall be peated to Menti the Tal ous quatfud Perna ke TU lations, terminale
rhein Pe pondri cus ile ponte to de raat sel al
far nine of insatiation 69 a distinctive ws MARI 0 other agua
Exc So. 1: Coutts within makin cob shall pat DE ins
tet bm ait ai et tons al the me of installa.
ioe seo wht or roy Paro or ori pty fede 208.16 Kdentification of Terminale
es (A) Device Terminals, Al devices, oxcluding panclboards,
Exc No. 2 The poumard conductor of a muldoudarkr provided wth terminale oc the attachment of conductors and
ist toiinoutacd oo mt permit 0 de hf al n Mtended lor connection lo more han one side of the cont
vio at tr i of installation 6 a inci A manking shall have emia marke for identification, unless ihe cee.
oratter gal con mean teca) conncarion of the terminal intended to be conneerd to
the groundea Conductor 5 arty eviden
Irma Note: The wie gras many have duet uva in he
pae an agro ocr Cort po en hen Exton: Dina ducati shall et br mgd or rs et
frie eed i cue rating of cre 0 pms, ta hn polorard attori
2007 Use of Insulation of a White or Gray Color or with MOI! plug and polari weplar for tint pugs in accordo
Three Continous White or Gray Stripes. ane wih 200.18)
. following sha be wet onl fo the groun (B) Recepiacies, Plugs, and Connectors. Rocoptacks, polar.
8 Coe. Tc lg sta be sod ol cog donare? dn Sed montone e Pigi an
Sian condicio, sien acre pred in 2748)
ded cio polarizea pgs shah hate th terminal ended for connee.
O decori di Fon to nc grounded conductor identificdas lors
A conductor th continuous vile oc gar covering
CC iper (1) identification shall be by a metal oc metal coating thats
6 A conti sità ee coins elite o gray ips emo in the ott Salle oe es
© A markingofwhite or gray color at the tecmination SA" located adjacent to the identiicd terminal
q 2) ith: terminal is not visible, the conductor entrance hole
® Circuit of Less Than 50 Volta. A conductor with whitc oc for th conection. shall be oko vite o marked wih
gray color ivulation or Three Continuole SARE. SECs or he eka“ th bis ME
Baving a making of whee or gray a the termination for
Dang 2 Tarking of whic 2 THR 00 mato Soe: Sc 290126 foc deni of ig
circuit of less than 70 sobs shall GORE ceti me omg rare mh.
y © Stvew Shale. For device with screw shell, the terminal
(€) Circuits of 50 Volts or Mare, The oe of lation his om Shell Fo doves ih sre sell te oe
hic or gra or tha has Tice coniinuoue NHRC or grat stripes Lor gr
or other than a groundcd conductor for circuit oo volt or
more shall be previ anly as in the follwing: (D) Screw Shell Devices vi Lead: For saw shell devices
‘sil attachea eck, the oni attached to the son shell
0) ifpart of a cab awembls that bas the feulation perma shall have a white or gray finish, The outer lingh of the other
4 conductor shall be of a solid color that wil not be confused
ES ANAL ELECTRICAL GO or
Cooma HEPA. rsh io NEPA rs Access arn NOI or GG cosa or 7ICE
Fr cain on lA 8 ceo TO TJ sea me ERE REE


--- PAGINA SUCCESSIVA ---

wei ARTICLE 210 — BRANCH CIRCUITS NOT OVER INI OLTS AG, 1500 VOLTS DG, NOMINAL
with the white or gay fish uscd to identity the grounded Table 210,5 Specific Purpose Branch Circuits
“omer
rota Kc: The oe gon a ve been i in he prey Arie seine
Tea ae ak. Coton od when reine Tins, 1103,
Epic ies igeigequipuen pyres
ances. Apphance that have a single-pok wich ors Bir si
ee ee Coatings Ei
singlo pole merc nt device in the line or ant lino connec dl healing cquipnent
it the hmpholder and thal ae ln be connota br (Da POE +
permanent wiring method or (2) fickbinsalied attachment Mien
Plage and cord vt ihre oe more sites (including dic aquip FASE CH a ma
rc grounding condor), shall have means to Fenty the EA
ean the graded cect condacior (ans) fo abe pnchesing as
200.11 Polarity of Connections, No grounded conductor shal “iment
beach to an eit o do to cin dhe desgna COA li deg ns
tod polarty: Infrared Law indizirisl heating 22.48.00 $24.3
ploy
[a -
nuestro
Sibi and parent son
ARTICLE 210
Branch Circuits Not Over 1000 Volts ac, all ungrounded conductors at the point where the branch
1500 Volts de, Nominal circuit origirates.
aman Note: Se 240.508) for information on he une
di dogeade ite bidet ie donenting ica
Pant tn {€) Linoto-Neutral Louds. Mukiwire branch circuits shall
210.1 Scope, This arude provides the general coquiremenis supply only ino tencutel oa
fo bean uc nor et KO volts ac: 1801 som ppt ent one
its yee sl rv io sappi eo bada
orm Ke Bce Patt I of Arle 25 fo cine
far ran rer 1060 Ne de 50 sito e mo Exton No, 2: Amati brachii lb ret pty
neti sad all around Sowtuds of mt oh
210.2 Recondiioned Equipment, The folowing shall not be cimutt ae apne simataneoah 61 4 branchetrut rast
cocoon ped
(1 Equpmani tht provides grndiant ROHR (0) Growing, The ungramdoa and gro cet
protection for persone} conductors of cach multivice branch circuit shall be grouped
Clete a
210.3 Other Arties for Specific Parpose Branch Circuits, 210.5 Kdentification for Brunch Cireuita
Table 03 se lence or spect equipment and applica (A) Grounded Conductor The scoured conduaoe of a
tions not locaict in Chaps 5, and 7 i amend or suppl. branch circuit shal be identifica in accordance math 26.
ment dhe cequicements of i article, © Exper Grouting oe comi
216.4 Muti Branch Gri. nding conductor shall be identified in accordance with
(A) General. Branch circuits recognized by this atick: shall be 221119:
promitiod a mule cleus. A multe circuit shall be (€) Identification of Ungrounded Conductors. Ungrounded
promitid to be considered as multiple ccs. Except 3 conductor shal be denied In accordance wih 210. CIT)
permittcd in 30 E101). all conductor of a music branch ov 2). as applicable
rhe proteat TATE or proisciiz deri (1 Branch Gris Supplied from Mare Tian One Nomina
pis Voltage Sym. Whe de premises eng scr has branch
ec ippica from more han one nara voltage sc,
formal Note No. lA Sho, die, wiesomnoisl cach proud conduior ofa branch eiscuk salt De ident
er am ach gh et Nbr anh WE nk oy oat a os mo norsinal voltage cnt ales
Pane ate poeti Sh Er nis ty Phase o ne andy nominal slag tem at all ery
of Big boon ss on theme ncn 20HEIDE) and ©) (0). Diflcent seems wii the
Irom Nae No. 2: ec OLNEY for wo; of me. premier that have the same rnin voliage "bak be
matador on lb drs Pemiticato use the same enon
(B) Disannecting Mears. Each muliwie branch circuit shall (9) Moots of HeniAcason. The mean of ideniication
be provided ha means tha wl mance Arent prominin be by sop ing. making
tape, tango other approced means
om [Ep
CHB EPA. Forel sie ce NEPA Fe Aces stor Nol i sour bac cr rice
Fo ines soa] Hse A ro ep Ahn ste Sen EERO o


--- PAGINA SUCCESSIVA ---

ARTICLE HO BRANCHCIRCCITS NOT OVER 100 VOLT AC, 1300 VOLTS BE NOMINAL 2106
0 aug of tion tens. Tie mod inca for (1) An appro pecmanci marking means sch as slceing
conor wring ela sah where panera ig Te ot or dhe son To
ir ete bon mr al De do rns connection, and spice pia si
mente ina manner tht Is readiy aaabke or shall be peta. Imprinted, mis sig) or the nord NEGATIVE of
emi pes cach brane pao oor RE Ait mare ti o a ove oe tn
em Er atc nen. The label shall eo en re rg oc ed
Scien durabile to witha he emironment imabedand A o
licen duchy ov 210.0 Branch ies Voitage Limitationa. Tos nina voltage
fy btanch cio dal Ae cme (he fifties 8
Exeo in xsi inaltationi wher a voligy patemi ars SAR dh (0)
ang Dain sos il po. i
Gr to mark on i nn fm voltage, ving uniamo CA Occupancy Limitation. In dling us and guest ome
rd me el he Da oe EME MI DAH gc as of orl, mort and Srila occupano dI
ee ives ACHR i wy Sola shall on cnc 120 volts nominal, Beton conc
Lobtong shall de pind al ch volbagr sistem distriburion equipment OF that supply the terminalsof the following:
a dal o on i metin dar dere md hve 1) Lames
um ee SE ad es "a we ar 0) Corp connect ade 110 eoliampercs, nomi
rie yen en che reni Bal oriercorbarihan Vi hp
@) Branch Circuito Suppliea Fram Dica Coens Systems. (B) (20 Volts Between Conductore, Circuits not exceeding
Mara bano drei applied From a de proses 120 cala fornai, Delon soos shall perme 5
Tr than 8 sole cach pa oor ofA AME spie the own
a logo Sha be identica br polari al al mina Vama at lampboldert applied thin drei ol
Be pied pol 51 Bish Toco apts appli ini loge
appre che ange gio si 6 ANG OE ment of cect i
ox smaller shall be identifica by polacky at ab termination, (2) Axia equipment of clectric discharge lamps
Connection, and plico plat In compliance ml: BOE Cowan Note Sec S087 ot cli spent limita
rand (0). The Hematite inc foc corns on
roti hia ch bere pao Arne a sb connect
Beach cicci distribution equipment sali be doamented ©) Cortand plugconnecte or permanent a
a manner that is teadd aszibble or steli be penranenty quipr
sica ai cath branch panclboatd 0 Sia branch. (©) 277 Volt to Ground. Circuit cuacating 120 vols, nom
Hui distribution equipment. © al, berscen conduttorrand not eseceding £77 volts, nominal,
a) Toate Reo San 6 AW orl Wore he posi. to ground Shall be ARCS. 10 ly coo PNE
the polari of a de Sar dot nol rw i dx conn ConA Io pray connected uil alan come E
Pain (ot He Fee conn Sa pose somone Bar ct meat ee
Jue fut teddies age n il integral talast
Pp connuous ced ome finish @ ED tame ai LED dimen ben the branch
© A minano Tot “aly marked along the deci and inc la mphoklee
aio ne bogs on eon of a colbr other ©) incandeszent or LED tana, eouippod wih medium
fin geco vite gen oe ck baz o rao cn shell pho whore ie lamp:
©) Imprinted plus signs (+) or the word POSITIVE or POS Folders are supplied at 120 volis of kx rom the owt put
i marked 50 inadaton of coli alice ian ra pnt eto, LED dee or roi ine
icon iv gran, oc black ana repeatat al intera: noi i poser To To dr an at Component a
Escoding Gi mm (21 in.) inaccordance wih SIN AE) lminaite Pr
(1) An prasad pment akg cans Ae eb so
de tun vig abt for ale coo poy (sot oe, Se 0 fog wens pt
3 icrmination, connoviloni and spice poms, wily Im fe ton of crow shel LouphaMen ue gant
prea pie Soa the wort FOSTEVE a POS
En ws one i (1 Luminaros capped ils mogatbase sce shell amp
ren ie map orbi pret
5 Rr Polti Sum 6 ANG rs we he 9) Lames oui wi phot ae than te
negate poem of a rom dosi Nol ee to coe ee oo ibm ve we oho cr ot
od rhe peso ch mega rom raphe
or ali be eee by one of to folomng © Loita lampholders
means: Lnformational Note No. 2 Luwinaires with semen ieable LEDA
(1 A coninuons black autor finish a no
@ 2 agree bhek aoe eat naked sho eG) uae equipment of eiceriedishage oF LED SPO
Tran green. whie. gen ot cod lamps
1 iMpana Mime gn oe de mori NEGATIVE or fwd Note Ko ee 440.15 for nr cvs
REC dual matie PR eR Cri Re wt
Ben abit, gar or ed prc al ye ant te emote
go. oc rd and read a nee pT incorpora.
exceeding 610 mm (24 in) ance wth SIAM) ing integral LED light succes or accepting LED lampe
[EON wn
Coma HET or ace ae ce NERA rg ces or sr couric, rics
BE ay en weeny


--- PAGINA SUCCESSIVA ---

pr ARTICLE 710 BRANCH CIRCUIT NOTOVER IMA VOLTS AC 1500 VOLTS DE NOMIAL
hat sho conform with 210.863), ID, CID. © (8) Baeren
0c (XM © Racha —
(D) 1000 Vols ac or (500 Sols de Bermeen Conductor Tih Ske nd permanent proms for ©
Girone esceoding 277 volts, nominal, lo gad and wy Ge oe psrton orig
cxcecding 1000 salsa or 160 sols de, nominal. between £610 tom the topinside edge of the bowd of the sink
Conductors shall be permed to supply the lolloving: PREC
The awdlary cquipment of clecrrcdlcharge lamps (1a) Battuda Or shower tale — where cocptaces ane
monica in permanently installed buinaics whee the tale thin 14 m 6 t0 of the outside edge of the
{uminaites ate mounted in accordance wh one of the batbtubor shonce sal
tallow: (1) Lady areas
a Not low han a height ot 67 m 22 tt) on poles or 12) Indoor damp and net ations
similar structures for the iumination of outdoor Exrgtion No. 1 Hcepancire that ap nnt ray acs and we
areas such as highways roads, bridge, SRK Bok, pin by a branch curt dedicated o drei suouarlting, dine,
‘or parking lots or pipeline and vel Renting equipment shall be fritid 13 be
b. Not kss than a height of 5. m (OW tt on other struc.  Guslalio in accondante att 450.53 05 125 22, as ppl
arcs such a tunnel
Exaption No. 2 A apts apbing onty a pe manent instal
mation Note: Ser 410.197 fo avatars cquioment asta st yom Al de fata i 10 omni poni as ot
Tonia. Guterrupier rection
@ Cordandplogeonnected or permanently SOUCY sun So 7 Lied une onpentng cling ps (RAG
lication equipment aber than laminaices Fe A A SA A
© Luma posed fom rectzueni ass whee pitt untiton lh oni tugging stint
cither of the follwing app: ‘aie or ceding suspenihd fan shalt br prrmitiod fo omit ground faut
a The kuminaice contains a liscd, deated balls that iri nein Promotion. 14 gel pugs conveniente nique.
provklo Isolation betwee he de power source and de niga he cribng hones or FARE edn Jan, CRC
the lamp cect and protection tram elette shock rotten atl bs pride
hen changing lamps.
b. The lamina contain bie, doce ballot and Exmoor epee tt rv edit arcre
bas no provision tor changing lamps Shall mot ypuie CH prtecton unless mquid 83 the instalintion
Exepion No 1 to (8, (CI, and (DI: For tompiotdrs of frst isirutioni or tg.
Furia beating appliancs as pr in 425.04. tf oousational Note: Sec Wal 414B) and We. 1214B) for pmwer
Exapton No, 2 to 1, (CI, and (UF or vaduay pmprizs SK (low fo fire dh Siew
dred ia 110.15, {B) Other Than Dwelling Onits. All 1Z3x0lt through 25solt
210.7 Multi pie Branch Circuits If fwn oc mare branch circuits [owptacks supplicd by single phase branch circuits rated
Supply eves x equipment on the same pole of mouniing 150 vols oc st to ground, 5 amperes or es, and al cecopta-
Sap. a means lo aan deconneci the ingiounden cx supplied by thee phase branch Gevi cred 50 sols oc
supply conductor shall be provided at the point at which the less lo ground, 100 ampe ces or less, installed in the following
Preheat ovine. | Po locations shall be provided wih GPU prateetiore
2108 GroundF sult Circuit Interrupeer Protection far Person (3) Bathcooms
el, A listed Clase A CH shall provide protection in accord: © aches ns and or too
ance with ZIO MA) theough (F) The GPCI shall be installed in ) Arcas with sinks and permanent provisions for
2 tradi accessible location preparation, beverage preparation, or cooking
tn Bullet tendng acces with permanent provisions Lor food
oon Not: Se 21531 GEC woken on eter. coving, beverage seving. or cooling
(1 Roahiopr
Far the purposes al this scetion, the distance from copra: (2) Rootiops
clos shal be measteot as the shore path the pone supply Sinks where ccceptacks or cardandplag-onnccrd
cord connect io th teecpicic would lw wibmat piecing) Sk e or repack or cali nce
a floor, wall, ceiling, or fixed barticr 61) trom th top inside edge of the bow of the sink
(A) Dueliog Units. All 25k through 230ol coceptaces tore ott tions
{Make he following caine ant upped by gie: 8) [or dae DEAL LL
phase branch dees aed 100 vols a lo o ground hall (2) Lk om semeiiod bei e imiae
Base proundtaul ica hice aptr protection for personnel Garages, secco buildings, service ba and similar
(1) Bathrooms 1) Gravi spaces at o pew grade level
© Garage and also accessory buildings that fase a floor (12) Uniinishea areas of bases
located at or below: grade excl not intendedas babilabk (13) Aquariums, bait wells, and similar open aquatic vessels
coons and limited 10 socage areas, work acca, and ‘or containers, such as aks ar beh where ceceptaces
accaso! sila use ate mall vibin 1% m © 1) trom the top ide
@ Oudoors cage oe tim or tran the conducive support taming of
(1 Cand spaces ator below grade level he senclor container
nw SAOONALELECTRAL CODE Breton
Copan NEPA. So ci se or HEPA Free Access ator RI dr Gilt Gon BRGre, ce vice
Fr cain on lA 8 ceo TO TJ sea me ERE REE


--- PAGINA SUCCESSIVA ---

ARTICLE 10 BRANCH COLITE NOT OVER IMMNOLISAG om NOLTS DG NOMINAL tet
0 Lamar areas single phase ban ccs cate 190 volts ar le gon,
{15} SAT stoner salle bere cpm are nk pr le emo GR on
dmn TN 3 of ot capo babi oe es meat al
Re) ” a eten
Exception No. 1: Rocepracirs that ave nor adits arcessiltr and arr 18) Boathouse.
mt td anti AUREA equipe pple by an ut, coe de he
Er lig es Hl Fo 50 cf We oct 1 pte. os ali de
pitsrkmbmioy iy eid ied ican of i recon
Exception No. 2: Receptors on roofiops shall not be mquiredio de ROT Exseption No. 1: GEE potertion shall nor be guid on fighting
A accersitt ther than from the vafiop. outlets otter than those cover in 211 8(C).
Luepion Ne J: Hamlet or cond ant phig connected fined and gyn No. 2: GIGI potion shal no be vue fo lisird HVAC
i at dn LA AGR pom dhe ap Eto No 2 IG pesto tt res
et ER li
Tl as wr whos 4 we and 2109 Cui Desved fom Ancmmtormer. Branch
oes ey ob ote ud Seat wed Shes tl i hd fe tse sh
ane in So Son wat uil EE BAe co doe
SRG al È petit Jr ont oe aah Soh ae Soo in ope
ot quin hk va i ot ara
rupted or has desi noi compatible ith GN protection Exception No. 1: An astommsforer shall be period without the
Sin So è tips otontgbgeomril ord ad on md oun whe Iv fon a nnt
ts te Ain TR NAc a ets mo SH pet eh om 240 nati
a and LE i
Ed thio in ar wt i eg
turd tr ho epic on we Dp ——
ifrmoval of p id nioduce peat asad. mance and supervision ensure that ou qualind persons service the
Suton So 3: tops bd in pit st tos of Cot ton, adoaornet sali PSA wd
do Ceo ho oo wt To vet 0 yd Wi a Im
JRE cme it 51521 il CONE ito mo ol gone
Exeegtion No. 6: Lise weight supporting ceding procs (hACR)  Sedcondiciori
ten os Sopot fat 21040 Ongrounded Condes Topped from Gromnded
eit or doge nn sat rt ol woh sortop Be pmo ri oon
Bd ee A ya oe
agar on ha Wot otto ig er om oto chew Fe)
tevin, on hall oe Te ie, Sa Aon ah pp She
: i [bein een bie)
(© Cru Space gio Owes GR pcm be a pole inch inground hr, dll pol af
Pron ahi av wo cst ing Mo voll ate ipl otel dees tal mall eich togethe
proci forte Fee auch chia kes alto a + Bing
ae aeedby he eg
{D) Specific Appliances. GFCI protection shall be provided (3) 4193 for double pale switched lampholders
ET Whang iy (3 fo pk RE ary coup
ed En vol be eed Goapele fr he
Te spha eh Tm rappin
5) tome vm machi: {9 ol 2am ee abating un
2) Drinking water coolers and bore fill stations (5) 426.50 for electric dicing and snowmelting equipment
[ifr anh 5 TD io a mes rr
(Trai & nea
[fica 210.1 Brn Circuit Required. Bach cis for Ugg
& Sump pumps and for appliances, including motor-operatcd appliances, shall
: be pensili io ppi dh Mae calcia ERA si
How cages 2:30. In addition. branch circuits shall be provided for
Wal mounted onere specie loads not covered by 220 1 where cequiced elsewhere
in Contr mie coking is one tati and or owing sk Spine in
fn Cate dre Dott
[ijk
i 3) Number of Bach Circuito The immu, nube of
(E) Equipment Requiring Servicing, GR protection shall be branch ciccuits shall be determined from the total calculated
provided for the ceccptades coquiced by 21063. load and the size or cating of the circuits uscd. ba all installa.
{6 Outdoor Outeta For drnelingo all outdoor cis the Soe beso See al on tS ih
ide ona Ie SARO sc o icing ond eh npc. Sl doa hd e
oudets installed in the following locations, and supplied by maximum specified by 720.11


--- PAGINA SUCCESSIVA ---

(© Lon Evmiy Proporsoned Amen Branch Chri Wise th list ot brand ern ARC seal
2) Lod Bry operon Ag rch Cle Wie hh ed
Be og sal be coca fr
iosa e cl Fk imdb on rg Toe behing ot coun on
eect be el oe od Hd Te mass log, of te bch io ve
1) Smalt-Apphance Branch Circuits. In addition to the The fics outlet box shall be marked to indicate that it
section, woo more Mharpere smebappliane branch circus (1) A listed out brancheleculbtvpe AFCI installed on the
shall be provided for all receptack outlets specified by branch circuit at the ficst outlet in combination with a
12) Laundry Branch Circuits. In addition to the number of the following conditions are met:
Jr la cop ous SESSA te brace wer
5 Batiroom Br Cat In alin the mbes of from in re cede 10 die Ai
more 12k, ampere branch cirorit shall be procided to © The lire outlet box shall be marked to indicate that it
andany cantcriop and similar work sirf acc receptade outlets. A The combination of the branch-ciccuit overcurrent
Suchcircuits shall have no other oudets. device and outlet branch-ciccuit ARCI shall be deri
ep we ta Stet co pi st ton dos sd ls anh Cl de
ots fo ot equipment within ho some batho shall be ported combination-fype AFCI and listed as such.
@ Garage Branch Circuits In addition to the number of Tequernonts of 28 TIA: wilt metal bres, metal cone
once I2hvolt, Mampere branch circuit shall be installed to of the branch dreuit between the branch circuit overcu-
supph ceccptacke outlets, including those coquiced by ore device and the fie outer, it shall be permitted to
UDHHGIN fox attached garages aul in detached garages install a lsted outkt branch<irult-tpe AFCI at the Bt
ional branch circuits ated 15 amperes or grate sl the branch circuit.
dona branch ccs med HB amperesor grat ball USI nonmetalli to biog or
fli By doit Nia Type MC cable & chcascd in not kes than 50 mm £2 in)
a of concrete for the portion of the branch cirari between
gon So 1 Ta a prt ng rp ean Se prone bhp even
Esepiion No. 2: Whee the Z0amper crud supps a single vehicle ype ARCI at the fist aust to provide pe
Son 5 J Jal rd nT forte Eig pf ra
210.12 ArcFauk  CircnitImerraprer Protection. Arciauli Prandi eam ACI fede Ser CL Sogn EBA Mile
Holl Anton Chingy (Posie fe ambo Ad ae LG Oo
Sedans oh HA) tha © bry ofthe ma (ny ne (ER
hare, Ci proteetion shal be provided ir (gy Dueling Uni, AL 120k, single-phase, 1, 1: and 20
d "a ampere branch cicuits supplying outs or deriees installed in

(1 A lsted combination pe AFCI insalled to prove ihe following locations shall be proteaiod by ans of the means

of the branch circuit in combination with a listed outlet fi fois ne

branch-icutype AFC iastallod on the branch ciranitat £2) Fam coos

the Tw outlet box, which shall be marked to mime 0) Dining rooms

that tis the first outlet of de iranch cecuit @ Ling coors
9 A listed supplemental arc protection circuit breaker a) Paras

Bot) SB Taree Be Ne a again: © Lona


--- PAGINA SUCCESSIVA ---

AKTICLE 10 BRANCHI CIKCE ITS NOTOVER 1900 VOLTS AC, 100 VOLTS DE NOMINAL es
@ bens instal on solid grounded we ckeirial gsioms of more
Bodo than 150 ols to ground, but nat escceding 1000 vos phase
©) Soncorme to phase. shall be pried ith grounddault protection of
(10) Recreation rooms equipment in accordance wih 250.5.
(11) Chose .
Gy) Coes maid Noe: See S113 creme biking.
an fe ar om Hohhot an
(19 similar seca Sato No. 1 Ti ston shall nt apply to a diconneeeing means
Sor a oti, ui rte sor nono star att
Epi No. 1: ANI prmurcton sal vt de mim for an ivi nts Purl proces lw
Bohra pho or alta i i oo Anata ro crt
ith 760 310) or 70205), he branca omit hb lnm Exception No, 2-7 scion shel not nb fpf tion
sd vaca, mia ato ut, armor cab, o Toe of Ament & pki onthe sup) side of the rh ce and on
Sal or Tipo A calle Pg tto appiabie wanes of 50.110, 1h Balm) fo A dl Branch A
with esl bes, conduit bodies, and endonari 210.17 Guest Rooms and Guest Suites, Uucst rooms and guest
Exc No. 2: ANI prsvetion sho nt qt for the indivi. SUI. in he folloming ocoupancice tut atc provided 1th
rat chi ping at adi Jo ede tpt a PE Manchi pron Tor coglie col have Branch CEE
uring unit nit fms 1. 205 ral to meet he les for dmelling wks
ot Noe Ko. Se APPA 222022. ott For thn (1) Motels
and Suing Co 2934) To nai pi wonders 1) Motels
oe win ot deme (3 Arne ling cies
ng uke Informational Now No. 1: See 210.LLEHZY and 210.52F),
Comat Note No. 2 Ser HOHE) at F026) for Ea 2 ontton on bs a rei ar
ee oan reg aifamei for fa alam arden petwiliven
© Dormitory Units Al 1Z0v0h, snglephaee, 10 Band forwabnal Soe No. 2 Ser NEA HOPRORL Lop Safe Os,
IM ampere branch CEES supplsiagouleivar Ae iid SUBITA AS LSRLZGH for de ED 4 amori
in he following locations Shab be proved by an of ne dmagfontani
means des bedin 210.120 through (1 (5)
4) Bedroom - i
(2) Living rooms Part Hi, Branch Circuit Ratings
@® Ialinass 210.18 Rating, Branch circuits cocognized by this article shall
@ Cows be cated in accordance with the rim permiticd ampere
(5) Bathrooms rating or sting of he eercurreni device. The rating for het.
@ Simile tooms than Individual branch cranio shall be 14, 19, 20, 3. 40, and
(D; te Compan, AL 40s sph, 10, PIPE More condor of bh ampia roc
o ans aso, the riper eating or selting of th specihed aver:
and ope branch ciau: sppkig outlet or device on en (he mpere ming a slog ofthe
neal in the fling ocatiore sali be prot bs any of
the means dere bed in S10 LAI) iar (046 Excprion No. 1: Mltiout branch iris grater than 50 angers
(1) Guest roomsand guest suitesof hotels and motels shall be permitted i supply noRSghtng outet loads in locations wire
(2) Ascat ioc cur 35 patient skceping foams In uc SIRS of malnimane and suprvision cu tht on qualit
ing Pome ani roe cracls rns sre hes quip.
8) Arcas designed for wee exdinisch a sleeping Quarters in guaption No. 2 thanch crude rad 1) apes shall rat supply
fire aon, police stione arbulance SEH, rescue eeu
ions ange atione, and similar iocatione
210.19 Conductors — Minimum Ampacky and Size. Branch
(© Brunch Cirenit Wing Extensions, Modifications, or circuit sonducioe: for SCS noi eseecding 1000 salts ac of
Replacements. If branch-ciccuit wiring foc any of the areas 1500 volts de shall be sized in accordance smith 210 1A)
specified In 210.120), (C), or (D) is modifica, teglacod, of through (DI
Fond. the branch citar shall be protceica by an of the
Fide nab Note: Caciara fo beh iiss ent
Arak Toh, Set eens a hes dom song
0) By any of the means described in 210.120) (I) through § ment De ames oui of poe hot ae hg
Goi JA ANT po
e Vio outki branch GEE ARCI atc tthe cst od Skat i dh Fede do ran citi he
cecepracke outer of the existing bench icant fare Que ne nel Dese 4 peroni pimide emme
ey onion. Ser BLANEY Domo Sete
Exception: ARCS protertion shall ot be ead whem th senso of 3 ar informativa ols. yo ember coma
he ting branch ciali contin ot or thr, 18 C6 1) and
oe ee ome oe ans (A) General, Branchelreul conduciors shall have an ampaciy
devices, This meannement shalt wt include the conductors inside an not kes than the larger of the following and comply with
vi Te meen del TI0IUE) for equipment tamination
210.15 Ground Fut Protection Equipment, ch branch. IEE MVE SHELL APE Sis el ine
circuit disconnecung mean ak 1008 Specs or mor and
eS NATAL ELECTORAL CODE 0s
Copri HEPA Fo sce ast cr NEPA rss Access afr Nol or Gite cosa vic
For veunes on le i Gra 0 isa me CRE REE


--- PAGINA SUCCESSIVA ---

ets ARTICLE 210 RANG CIRCE TS NOT OVER 1000 VOLTS AG, 1500 VOLTS DE, NOMINAL
minimum brancheircuît conductor siae shall have an (1) Individual ionpholderi or fuminaive with ps rxeuing not
ampacity noi less than the. noncontinuoue load piu tongrr tan 450 mm (18 1.) son any prion of the lamp
0 percent of the continuous oad in accordance 1th dover toniain
sia i (2) A tuminahe big mp conduc in vtec with 41.117
pon 0 3 st, tg boom dn) SE ose, afl ot avi, wi ns no
ring dere hms or pion 4 00 permane mdm india sing anes
{ating rh amps of re Branch cit comdurtor shall to pric am dle) ALE UG AHL an mas
oe oti than de sum of the continuous od ash nomcntin CI Noung bat dig and ss melting cols and
od in ens th 110 CL Exton No: Frat and fol cont tt prs cor
2) The minimum branch keutconductor sac shall avg an “M7 500 19 AWG as prt by 240.3
ampacit not less than the maximum bad 10 be wed 244.20 Overcurrent Protection. Branchekcuk conduciorsand
alter the ‘application of any adfument of coneation  cquipment lor circuit not cxcoeding 1000 voke ae. oc
Be mer i 3a 5 TB vols de shall be protociod Ia oserciitrent proce de
agio 0 1) and (28 erro a renin Foo bue a 310g or setting hat complice ih 20.300)
td tt Dott ss upp and ad ude fo parts old presa
Comrions av count 1 110.14CH 2). an alloc paces in (A) Contimuons and Noncontimaons Loads. Where a branch
“eto wth 30.13 nf ins thos ite cum of th Continui log circuit supplice continuous adh o ar corsbition of oni
usd ncontios toad alo rnd No portion af a braneh ons and ponents load, the cating of the mec
ra md under 1 nod Ash id tuo an cartone is Sali or be les ihan he nonontinaous Ios pis
containing ate the branchciuit suppl ov the heim ion 129 percent of the continua oad
mations. Exeegiion: Whew tn assenti including the sane dries
(BY Branch Circuits with Mare than One Recepiacie, Uonduc- prying the branch c5esit, o (et for sprion at. 100 peat of
tor of branch cireuits Supplying more than one ceccpiacke for is dng he ampere rating di overnet die shall be pb
cordand plug connected portable ads shall have an ampacky oh nor ese that he sum of (he conta rad ph Th nonin
Foto than the rating of the branch drei e pase i #
©) Howebold Ranges and Cooking Appliances. Branch. (B) Coadurtar Protection. Conduciars shall be protected in
circuit conductor supplying houschold ranges, malk mounted accordance with 2404. Flexible ord and fue vce shall be
ven, couniemounied Coking wns, and othce houtchold protect in accordance th 210.5
cooking appliances ball have an ampack not ks than the ic) Equipment. The rating or sting of the quercutceni
I i: otc cine devi: shall not exceed that spd In the applica
load to be served For anges of fa ki or more cating. the hen in Table 210.5 for equipment
minimum branch rating shall be 40 Ampere wp
Escqption No 1: Contuctns tpped from a branch cout not vow.) Oulhet Devices, The rating or setting shall notescecd that
ing 30 cps sipping het ranges, watbmouned rc avena, SPOSI
wid unter mouned etre cooking units ho fae an ampariy of 210.21 Oullet Devices. Outer devices shall hare an ampere
ot lx than 20 aon and shld te ficient or he ad to be cating tha is not less than the load lo be served an shall
ert These tap conductors incide cm conducts that am a pan of compl xa 210.2100 and 8)
Is ld uh de ps i me nazio dan nc
circa, To tipi Sal no br oe Gan etary foro. (A) Lempbolders. Where connect toa branch cect having
Cana de appia ating in exeess of 0 amperes, bmpbelders shall be of the
avy type. heavy us lampbolter shall have a cag of
Excpion No, 2: The seat conducior of a Fade branch mito lese than GU war i of the admedium tipe, oc not [oe
Capping hous rivni Tangs a halo monunnd gu. or a than 30 malte il Of anvorher pe
Comin mountn cooking unit shall de prete o be smaller tan the
npomdtd conda tot wer (e mina demand of a vane of (8) Recepiacien
FER or mor ing har dem cated coming Catumm Cf (1) Single Recepiacie on an Iodividoai Branch Circuit. A
Table 220.35, but uch condaetor shall fave an anpacits of tot desi gle ecc piace tstalled on an individual branch cieca shall
Han 70 pon of ve ranchehenit rating and shal not ir mal fate an ampete alg not oe han that of the branch eect
tan 10 ANTE
(Dn per Lode. scans cocor tht pps foals 50 So di A pl lid in rons wi 100101
other than thee specified in 210.8 and ar than cooking Exaption Na 2: A cial ntl xls for the wie of a cordo
appliances as covered in 210.14{C) shall have an ampaciy sly and lageounced ae elder shal te rit to fave at ampre
Gent for he nad. served and shall noi be smaller than ving nor 4a fan tv minimum eran coudutor amparty
TAM Tries 85 630. THA) forare etd
Esasgtion No. 1: Tp conduc sa four ar pec cnt for formation Note See Ani 100 for te definition of ee
hr dad served. In addition, he sh doe nampa of not leg
Han 13 for cove ted theo 40 mpeg and et evi hn for
iru aud ai 40 0 30 amprirs and only shor the ip conducions
supply any of dhe fotto la
1081 SAPO ALELECTI AL CODE Breton
Copan NEPA. Zo ci ie or HEPA Free Access ator RI dr Gilt Gon BRGre, ce vice
For tunes Seria Boer Gin 5 apr Jan dea sce Care] legali Aa ct


--- PAGINA SUCCESSIVA ---

ARTICLE 210 BRANGIECIRGEITS NOTOVER 1000 VOLTS AC, 1500 VOLTS DE NOMINAL 2045
@ Tot Cortand Plug Connected Load. hese come (2) Duelli uit xb ans br os uy soon
to a bench che mri To or more ecm of laid ie
ois a cepa SR poppy a mil conde (7) A gu breplace unit supplied by an ivi branch
Connected bad in escess of the MART speciicd in Table citt e
PILONI 2 Lows Net Pr mtd for 6 Ampere Branch Crs A 10
(5) Recep Ratings. esc conmocted 10 a branch cu Snaps branch cor oh ot op ang ot The ng
upping or mod phen Hi ITER SE (1) Kepadc oes
ot. vhte talea higher than 00 ampere, the rccptack rag (0 Fou PPIs, execpt as permite for indal
Sali nor be RR RTA qu Pane ie ee
Exim No. 1: Rpts int ct fr th of crt: 9) Layout
andpluganieced ar welders all be pwn] 10 fave ampee (By (5 and 20 Ampere Branch Circuits. A 15: or ampere
tings Rot ts than the minimum brachii condor ARMY branch circus shall be permitted to supply lighting outles,
dekrmined b5 630 INA) or (8) pare wrtdr. lighting units, or other utilization equipment, or any combina.
Crim Yo 2: The per rating of apt por cioe Soma mst SR matt ERS) BE
divtiony lighting sholl be permite ta be bused on 410.6240). Excepion: The snail appliance bunch chris, foundry branch
@ Rang Rceyice Ring, To ape rang of a range Siria, dB ste syst don ene
sansa GIURO (CD, md (CN) OE op avy ie mi
SRY pedi o Table fe sot int sein
21622 Permimible Lose, itu Branch Gira, An indi. (0 Coan rg Connected Equipment Not Fateoed in
vidual branch cect shall be permitted to supply am kad for Place, The rating of any onc cocdkand-plug connected tila:
which it is rated, but in no case shall the kad exceed the tion cquipment not fascned in place shall not exceed
ot ie peo brash ape cing
210.23 Permissible Losds, Mutphe Outlet Branch Circuits. In (2) Utilization Equipment Fasteued in Place. Th total cating
roaming 9 Wilson coupon each n piace, 10k ha a
and Sons ein of coos or pri Sn shall not AoA pc ol hrs apre
all mp ord AA a in Cg Aghi uni corda Ee pe
PARRA ada (E and IEEE qu men nor fase in piace. of both ate also supplied
21024, © 30 Ampere Branch Circuits. A ampere branch dear
(8) lO Ampere Branch Cit A IO anpere branch drei Sali e prey do supp ed Eg Ii vid bea dute
shall compie wih the toque ments of ZIO ZANNI) and (A) lampholders in other than 2 dueling uni) or uilimtioa
5 Romei n any occupa To ai of an one sacd a
© hag connected arson. coupmen; sali not sced
(1) Loads Permitted for I0-Ampere Branch Circuits A 10- Aa porconto the branch-ircult ampere rating.
Spee bach Sri al De pen Supply on 0 i
priate, ©) 40 and Ampere Branch Circe A 1. oc s0ampere
Aranch circuit Ani De pormittod to supply cooling applies
(1) Lighting outlets chat are fantencd in place in any occupano: In omer tha
iting ina, ach chee shall be pene to spp ed
[Ru unt ma re Ep bestie
Table 210.21(B}(2) Maximum Cord-and-Phug Connected Losd i ope
Dee (©) Branch Circ Larger Than 50 Ampere, Branch ccc
{Ego an 5 mpc Toba as sobbing ool
[oT Mega iaag Mom Lan a
pres, Wengen “lamemen 11034 Bruch Cucuit_Respiemens — Summary The
or è 2 Fanale fe ep Soe Fe HG
0 H i © ana OD). dre amie dn Table HOA) of
mm aa ant Babe ZR for aby and
coon Tale 10230 and Table
Table 216.21(B)(3) Rece pacie Ratings for Cirruits Serving E1022) provide only a summary of minimum. ini
More Than One Receptacie or Recepiacie Outlet Sec 21019, 210.20, and 210.21 for the specific requirements
its hii Ng io branca ri
Coed Rega 21625 Branch Circus în Buikdingo with More Ton One
n om (A) Dueling Unit Brac Circe Branch cents in cach
H cg hak stop ol os i os dwcling ot
H on parsed eit chee


--- PAGINA SUCCESSIVA ---

eas ARTICLE 210 BRANCILCIKCEITS NOTOVER 1000 VOLTSAC, 1500 VOLTS DE, NOMINAL
Table 216.26(1 Summary of Branch Circuit Requirements — Copper Conductors
TT [Ty [Ty ST ST ST
[rr
Ghose u u 2 lo s 6
Tan i i IH I I 2
Fistare ines nd ors seein,
Overasren Protective 1a 15a 0a wn wa son
erep—
Lombokiers perito Am ve Am ve Anse Hosidot Hoordow Hardon
Fece rng Notable Hach thors A 080 ai
Maximum Losd 10a 15a wa sa wa soa
[em SCHR) S026) Sc 20m = See2102MO),  Secdleendy  Selenm
Torvald def ee FO
Brunch sect ra lamperes dial pty exits in
Table 216242) Summary of Branch Circuit Requirements — Aluminaon and Copper-Clad Aluminium Canductars
CT" CI a wa wa aa wa
Comdcoes win ir
Cirone © 2 fe : i 4
Ton IH IH iz 2 fo i
Fite vi and id. sein
er — 1a [E Fy 0a on wa
Outer deieey
Lonpholders ponniued Ans ape Ans ope Anenpe Hondoy Heyden Hew day
Recep rang’ Nolapplitabie! lima LAM 0A A PRET A
Maina Lost 10a 15a 20a 0a 0a a
Eermivibic oat Secé0NL Sec 2020B  Scd0NEL Sor HAZE). Bee 210.280. Sec 210.280).
Fo ec a rio sic echt Ein Fe ne NGA
“Bronce aa Homers hal ap esa oats,
(B) Comman Area Branch Circuits, Branch circ installed (C) Appliance Receptacie Oullets Appliance recepiacle
for lighting, cenial alarm, signal, communication, or other outlets alld in a dwelling unk for spell appliances, such
purpotes lot public or common atc of a inofamib Nig = lund: equipment, shall pe incall thin 1 m (10 of
3 multifamily deling, or a muli-occupancy building shall not the intended focation of the appliance
be spplied form equipment trat supplier an RINE 30 0 veline rit Reps. Outils This scion
i pac provides oquiements fo Zak 13 and Tampere cops.
Uhm Note Exams of pri of coon cs Gc wil The eceptacks required by tis section dul be in
[igure gh dhe Sdeltlon to am cecepiaie ho ar obo
Tuoi four, of ders, wahoo wor von, dec
Sa ain, ad mechanical ron (1) Fartofa luminaite ac appliance or
ie (® Conelled by 3 etd walkmeeed control device in
accordance wth 2107001. Execption No, 1, 07
Part HI, Required Outlets (5) Located within cabins o aupboare, or
(1) Located more than 1.7 m (3 ft above the floor
20.50 Receptacte Outlets. Reccpiacke outs shall be
inl specie in 210.52 through 210.68. permanently pale cleric haboanl beste equipped
te tra na oe ot wi Tactory inallod recepiacke cet of otc provided aa
or tind Kote: Sec Dforwave Anne ) for information on he atte shall De perle ae
repr ADS sob dog de cequited ult x cakes for the wall spare hac by such
A) Cord Pendants A cord connector that is supplied by a permancnly installed heatce. Such reccptack outlets shall not
peomanenily connected cord pendant shall be cnidercd a be connected to th heater cnt
cevcpiacle out of oomutional Note: Lied hacbosrd hers ince mire:
© Cord Connections. A ceccpiacle outlet shall be installed go dai yo perni Mei i ein fei
wherever Ilexibie cords with attachment plugr ate wed Where Po
Tlexinke cords arc period to be permanently connected, (A) General Provan. In every kitchen, arly room, dining
ceccpiacles shall be perinittcd to be omitica for such cords room, ling oom, park, library, den, suncoom, bedroom,
103 ATL ECT RAL CODE ES Laion
Commer NEPA. For excose tse ar NEPA Fes Acksss erm Nol kr ib. cosines. cr nics
For tunes coniaci Soe in Gra “o apr Ahan dea sce Care] legali Aa Gta


--- PAGINA SUCCESSIVA ---

ARTICLE 210 BRANCH CIRCEITS NOTOVER 1000 VOLTS AG, 1500 VOLTS DE, NOMINAL ERI
teacation coom, or simibr room or arca of deli units, ted to supply recepiade oles In the kiichen and oe rooms
comcpiacke outlets shall be installed in acenrdance nh the specified in 210 SAE. No smalkappliane branch circuit
general provisions speck in 20201) through UOC, shall seve more than one kitchen,

(1) Spaciag, Recepiades shall be installed such that no point (€) Comtertops and Work Surfagra In Kichens, panties
measiced hecizonall along the floc inc of any wall space is becakiat room, dining rooms, and similar accas of dwelling
morethan | Am (6 {0 froma rowpiacke outlet ink rocepiack oniete for countertop and work surfaces thay
dre #00 mim (12 in of wes hall DE installed in accorda noe
(2), Wal Space, As used in tlis section, a wall space shall Li 21052) iieough (C103) ant shall mo be considered
include the following: "e the cocepiade out required by 210 32)
(1) Any space 600 mm {2 ft) oc more in width (inching e
a arredato eee a ae kat For the purposes of this section, where using mulontct
Ea ae orf  assemblics, cath #0 mm {12 in) of mulliouiket averi
pte containing fo oc mort. ceccpiacks instalica in neal or
pitti ra am continuare Rngthe shall be considero 10 be one foceptarie
(2) The space occupicd by fined panels in walls, exch“
sliding panck (1) Wal Spaces. Roccpiacle outlets shall bc insaled so that no
(8) The space affixed by fixed room vider, such as toe. point along the walle & more than 600 mm (24 (n) meas
standing bac comneeeroc a ngs {ced borizontalle from a cocsptade owlet i that pace. The
(8) Floor Recepaacies. Receptacle outs in oc on floor shall location of ihe cocptacles shall be in accordance with
ot be counted a part of the required number of coceprack 21982000)
ules unless cared within 15 mmm {18 In.) of the vl Encino. 1: Recopmet ours hal vt be quin d dimes hind
(9) Coumertop and Similar Work Surface Receptacie Ce. 4/7, urinated wing ui. or sinà in dhe insiatintion
Eo cg art cot wlan Ww 33 go 10 SCHL]
as spociiod in 210580) shall not be considered as the reccp.  gapion No. 2 Whew a nguted eptace oul cannot be insialirà
tace outs reid by 240.5200 in rh wll amas shawn in Figure 210 SACRI, Gu ropa aut
Sl fermi to de sith fos cls as roticab i counteriop
®) Small pp ma to be serv. The tod number of regi andes rung te
(1) Recepiacie Outlets Served. ln the kitchen, pane, breaks wun shall wat be int than (ho rum need o SON
fast coor, dining toom of similar arca of a cling Wik the SH0SHEKL) Tune autos dui be vad in ncotawe wih
two or morc ampere smallappliance branch ciccuits 210 (CAT)
cequited by 210.1103 (1) shall serve all wall and floor copia:
Roc covered by 2105200) al couniectopoutis cover (2) [sand and Peniomiar Countertops and Werk Sarfaces,
BC, a oe top outlet Cer] Reocoptack: ouilets, € installed to sxe an Island ar peninsaar
by 205 ls FON equp: qictap or work surface, shall be mal in accordano
with BLACI. IE a covepracle oul ix hot provided 10
Ein No. 1: In aon to he uid woos spcfed by seve an Eland or peninsular countertop a work surface, pres.
SET eid epee pio a grote on 20 Cow ak be pred at he Pon Pinca or foe
mgm branch cid shall be frais in acd ih 210 7A) alton of a eeprace ole to sere the island or peninsular
(1) Exepion No 1. coumertop or wots surface,
Esti No. 2: In ain to he mimi muepiarirs spreifind 65 (3) Recepiacie Outlet Location, Reccptade outlets shall be
21052, a wepici uth 1 serve a suf plies fal bop. located in one ot more of the following;
dt te suid fom on iit vanes Fruit red 15 anpriri (3) Onorabose, but not more than 500 mm (20 in) above, a
erin, Countertop oc week surface
@ No Ober Outiets. The two or mere smallapplance {2 In a counieiop using recepiack owt assembles ised
branch circus speciticà in 210.52)(1 shall have ho ther for me in counterions
ules (8) na work surface wing receptacle oulet ascemblieslisted
pion So. 1A pc tae ot for the et sp for me in wecksurfacctor lod for ie in couniertape
npn No. 1A eprint te irc supp 0
ma nippon an she hn in of ch veo sod fn Rocepiade oules rendered not ceadily accessible by appli
STENT) aa de pasto co reed by a amallagetiante ances Emenee In place, appliance garages inks, or angriope
branch cirie as coved in 210 BANCHI), Excepion No. I. or applances
Sccupsing astigned spaces shall not be considered de those
Eseepiion No, 2 Heracles instal 0 provide power for supple — Cequical outlet
sa Muipren and (ging on gor rouge, ous, 7 coun. . .
ood asking urs St ome ee rw by sme Ib Ke So bir AE rma of cy
liane ris cima. I murk aia See $8010 for aon of mokimaliei
©) Kitchen Receptacle Respirements. Reccpuckes insiallod in owl
2 kitchen to seve countertop sucfacrs shall be supplied by net orm Note So. 2 Sec Ufonnaiie Ames | and
fewer than two snalbappliance branch cecuks, oer of both Lo Somme Aen J
of which shall ke be puomitica to supply cov prcle ote in et ey Tore al et ob Burk
the same kitchen and in othe roomy specified in 210.5208)
(1). Adina smalkappliance branch ciecuits shall be permit:
ves En ALON ELECTR ALGO 1037
Copan NEPA Zor sci ase cr HEPA Fr Access ator NOI tr Gilt Gon Bare, ce vice
For tunes Seria Soe Gin ora “o apr Alan dea sce Care] legali ia ca


--- PAGINA SUCCESSIVA ---

west TICLE 210 BRANCHI CIRCUITO NOTOVER 1000 VOLTS AC, 1500 VOLTS DE NOMINAL
© Balms, Deck, and Porches. Balonics, deck, and
amon rz emmiman ovens porches hat are win 102 mm {4 in) borgonially of fhe
tom gain amen) cling unit sha have at art one cecepraci oes ascessible
on i balena deck or po The tea or so
toi hor mote ha 20 m 9 0 above oe hao.
gee
J diclling uni, ai bat one cecopiack
A ee lon as Aenea oe heron
pote Sa pan:
caine oca Exception Na 1: A megacle for laundry; equipment sha not de
tes ug to wens a wine nly
et nts oh arg pn
Exim No. 2: A ep or ant syst sit vt te
Shyam ms La cman Go0 mm ida etd in otto ha out ft Ang Sh ows acti me
SERCIRR) [om storia win TH ted pene ”
©) Buremento, Garages, and Acceamory Buikings. For ono.
na ai eee and ee deellgo, di Rai
x a cult cal let the dica eco
N OSANO rough (GS) This remain shall b
aon mrp or cars rien Hoc
funge, ack suppiring only a permanenty sale promises cnc bY
rey stor i EA aie dete requirement
ena 1) Garages 1 h hed nd ich detached
gia a n cach attached garage and in cach detac
arm garage win cleric powcr, at least One Focepracis outle shall
[ot Fe metallo in cachi vehicle bay and noi more ian 17 18
Gt atene the ow
tsopior: Garage spare not ate tod to an individual darling unit
mate during hk no ete et outlet act
Li
ci Asessory Biking. In cach accesso bulding veh cc
FIGURE 21652) (1) Determination of Area Behind a xi power.
Ranger Counter Mounted Coorg Unit ot Siok © Basementa tn cach separate ished portion of a base.
© Bathrooms. At last one recepiade our sali be (0 Habe. In dling unit, balay of 30m (10 0 ox
aot roe Wi 908 mm (5 of th ase RS eng aa i pat ove
pe of ca The emp outlet shall be ewe on 3 a er is isco. te allay leg shallbe consid.
Fo pation on è aprendo ine sin ascent, laren oid
ello parton ho acto Ck CHE col he ngi Sg in of ty wr
the mk abit. in no case shall the reccpiack be located PRSiMg theougt
ee a 800 fari (1% in) bolo th op oF he si SE ank Foye Foe rat are ot prt of a lh scorns
oii, Keka ole series Teed lor wf in co uh SSL and thai ho an arca To Foes Man
tertops shal be permitted to be installed In the countertop. 56m (60 (1) shall have a cecepiacle(s) located in each wall
a py a Bho mo wih, Donne dute
sala En © Eo that gem i the tna, and similar opening shall
. i fn en Mi be coneiderad valispact
© Ouidoor Oulets. Outdoor sccepiack culle s
2.50 20 CUTIE as so Oot rics Oria masi
1) One Family and Two Funily Dueling. Fx a oncdamay + CoP
cling and och unit ol a tro tarde Anciling hat or grade (A) General, Guest cooms or guest suites in hotels or morc
escl ai Yar one rocepiacie owns sade acconsible from Skccping rooms in dior units, and similar ocupancics
gu ad ai mare fa 20m 910 Shore gin Eve sali i are pick ts sled dn geme dance Uo
Bind fama sete ding A ol) Ci pg po
ct Mitamiy Drelings. For cach dhcllng unit of a multi. Domi n accordance vai all the po me i
Cl arca ol eR at uao loci ae
ha provided tb ot een cane ai East
one eecepiade tle readily ache (com grade and not (8) Receptace Placement. The total number of recepiack
one epi out edly soceisble from grade qu net ques Simi vot be e dan tequitol n 210 hy Tose
erp es sal be pitch to de located coon
soa [ES
Coma TET Trace co A rg ces or a or si couric, rics
Be a ee eeaoncs


--- PAGINA SUCCESSIVA ---

ARTICLE 710 — BRANCH CIRCLITS NOT OVER 10M VOLTS AC, 1500 VOLTS DC, NOMINAL er
for permanent furniture lgout, Ar kast tu cceptade outkts (1) Recepiacle Outlets in Fied Walls, The cequiced number
hall be tcadily acces. Where recepiacics are waked of reccpiacle outles shall be detennincd in attordanee sith
behind the boa, ine cocepuade shall be Ioganca 10 prevent ite RR a pic
bot from contacting ay attachment pig that may baked  permitiod to be cato ae determined by the nal,
or the teceptade sha be provid wn a sutable guard Gesigner, oc building nr
21062 Show Windows. At kast one 12540 singleigha, 19- () Flows Gales, A meeting coom with arm floor dimension
ot ampere fato recast shall be installed ibn hat it 37 m (12 tl or geeaterin am dircetion and that bar a
50 mm (IR in) the top of cach sm chon. No point lle acca of at leas 20 n° (219) shall Fc at least one floor
almg the top of the sindor shall be facies than 18 m (B10) ceccptacke cule, oc at least one Nor outlet ta serve a teres.
roma recpiclc ottici leto, locator at'a distance not Fs han LA m (8 £3 from any
21063 Equipment Requiring Serciog. A 125sol, single. 1 valiforcach #0 me C13 1) or action ere
phase. Bor 20amporeica weeps out shall be orwat Noe Na L: Ser SUB for renews on
estatica at an accemible cation mihi 75 m (29 (0 of the lowe boxe fo apd sie (Pe ot
equipment as specific in 210 GIA) and 8) Uiformationa Note Nu 2 Sec 318.1 p—

nation Note See OBE) fr copies on GFE edo 90 wo pe
poten. 070 Lighog Oniets Respir, Lighting ous soll be
ia tenting, Ai Conditioning, and Refrigeration Equipment. install vere speed in 200700). (8), and (0) The
i pri on Sal be Benton dhe ae rach ot sak mesrued conrol device hl no ie chen
level an ine heating. ais condoning. and refrigeration equip ona baie unex. a means proved for atom ally oer.
ment. The receptadic ous shall noi be connecica to tl kad ging the Bhi owes upon battery failure
Sd otite equipments branche aut disconncering meant AE I I a
(A) Dusting Osta In dling unite, ighing ois shall be
Excpton: A apiece owe shall not be put at one and tuo. nao accordance sth ZU TRAE and A) EI
Jone doting for te vite of its av (1) iabiable Rooms, Kiuhens, Landry Areas, and Ba
(®) Otber Electrical Equipment, In otler than one. and vo room. Ar lessi one lighting owt controlled bra Hac wall
{ami dueling: a recapiache outlet shall be locate ao sped. mounted control deve hall be tall in every babitable
tiedin 2106808) (1) and (S102) room, kitchen, bundy arca, and Inthe, The alk mounicd
control device sali bè localca near an entrance to inc Foor
(1) Indoor Service Equipment The required receptacle outlet SEA
erate Torro oo ara a son i
equipment Excion No. 1: (note tho Kitch, {nun avs, and ath
. i tant, nr or mom ier conoid by oi ell mounted
@ Indoor Equipment Requiring Dedicaied Equipment rey oe n le Inet tole a tod
Specet Where cauipment, ib finan ste MET ot deve shall be pri n tra of SET ute
cq deat equip space a speciPed in TOCE),  Esion No, 2 Lighin outs shall be pried to de contr 9
the tequired receptade uti dll be located within the amt pew sens Ata str (1) in addition to Hard dwn
coom De atea a ine cRancal equipmeni and shall not be fowl dicen (2) et al a Custom WAI kh doradon and
onnccicd fo ine had side of the equipments disconnceting Apt wlth nant averrite cor uil loro tte amar io function
mean ara vat mt,
£1685 Meeting Rooms. 2) Addons) Locations. Adeltional lighting outlets shall be
i a inttallegin accordance ith th Following:
(A) Geen Each ting som of noi more than 90 rl) At eat cs velo by a letel all
73 in dct than dwelling unite shall have outlet fo
Gn fe) in oie han declling unite shall bave outlet for manic consol dcsice shall be inmallcd In balks,
pe. perc cept
outlet shall be nai in accordance hh 2A 48. Where aia, attached garages, detached garages, and aes
a toom or space is provided with movable partition{s), cach op O bulding with chemi pons and detachea
Son sac shall be detain i the partivon in ine postion 9 Fo elle ie, attached gages, and druched
that rele in the smallest sc meeting Foom Gela canola by a vac vali mounted contol devist
nati Note No. È For ile puro: of ih scion, “hall be nate 19 provide itumination on the euterior
cai fon ate bili Ho embed fare al side of outdoor cranes or cate ih grade. escl access
plirk Jumping tol fr chor NT eA ar
Teri pr it variano, he pode cect ee doen aaa
ben hs Clan peor of Lar case
Jr Excpion 21: Pov an autor, groin bdo wi stai
ional Soke Example of om ht ec TGV 0.0 sub patio le cr, uted our
ots ced tht pies itumina tion on tte siro ps sl de peed be
ai he Omen ior win 13 m3 1) aoa of Ge
©) Receptacle Ones Required Toe total number of coccp. foams stiro, mr. Ts tro Sig mb dt ot.
{ack Gus, including fog kts and (CCPC outlcta In do sondit Dia 08 Salmond onl rts or i
foca amen, shall ot be ks dan GRETA in oer ean anaes mone tpi
210 SHIA) and (102)
© Where lighting outs are insall oc an nc sale.
sa Wik i GE more der Benton flo eel, there
ES ANAL ELECTORAL GO om
Cooma HEPA Sor sks is cr NEPA rs Access rn NOI or GHG cosa of ICE
Fo anes contati Sse A ro ori Aen ste Sone EERO oe


--- PAGINA SUCCESSIVA ---

were Jr
shall be a loto valt mounicd control device at cach lor rating, rt amparty of te pun condarior ili de pemiind tod not
Real and ai cachi ag oe that includes a Say it ton o tum af de ons bad sh ot id
entry to control de lighting outlets. Exception No. 2 War a portion of a fie & connerted at both it
Eucpiono (11,21 and (1 eww, rara, or avon com fal nd bd ots dove tonsa
i ht id ta Giorno of obo I 15.14CH 21 il Dl pred o Mate a ot] no
pt ean im ots oo tos ok
et ws en Sal eta
th Dime conzol of lghing oul sled in acco. 50 cio of a pati ld under hs on hl xd i
Sco via IR 000 (3) Shall not be pres hl iting the pra uy or the fre lod
ert cool devices ca provide recor i
tenon eh Boe location We. ton No. 7 Grom conduzione dus ar no omc 0 an
Cor suina laminato nn de ht od be cn on 100 oven fo
1B) Guest Rooms or Gues Suites. [n hotels, motcls, or similar continuous ant poncontinous oad
bpm poor 1g Sak haves 9 Ampacity Adjustment or Correction Fara, The mini
Foo oui mani a toe waa control mam heat concen sve shall have an ampatio nol les
device pate evn abt om thant {an the masimam on 10 be seed af ib application of
em eo i SMS cat is ETE 1
a wits cobb ne meant tometer] Note No, Srv anes fr En
Soi oto sg oot, rete
ono. 3 Liga one sotto rtd to e etl gi Ne o. 2 Gro or sera n
Stone 2 Uygur sll rnd oct yb Soe tn ir eet
pe LATE RC
equipped with a manual ooeriide dat aliows the sor to function as age dro on buh feats and branch sirio to the fanhiei
a wall switch. Dull docs not esucod 5 pereant. wil prinide feavona ble off
€) All Orcupancies. For attics and under llooc spaces, utiliy ley of apetaion.
Sort, and batman Fone VET ole ons formal Note No, 8 24.9, Worn Note for
pe bra vali sith or rep i eri Mtv bd
oro deste shall be fae ce Toe spa ate wor i e que ot the fete circuit
Co or contain coupe eon SERE. A pon i 48) Grounded, Conductor, The si of the coder chest
control shall be at cach citry that permits access to the attic Bound conductor sha’ nor be salier than the equipment
lero space, ier Fon beens. where light: Kung conductor size coquicod by 28122, except that
ing tot is metal cq upturn evi, te Hight: £97224) shall not appl whee grounded conductors are cun
ing outlet shall be installed at at near the equipment, in paral
ional mira ics shall be as specifica in 218.20)
[Piatti
© Ampacity Relative 10 Service Conductors. Toe tecder
Condaciot aipati shall not be lov dba Hal 01 the sonico
ARTICLE 215 conductors where the feeder conductors carry tic total load
Pecos Co ee cos on amp 58 per
js
FE i shall be proccica
dts. Scope, Taide vs e ion etn Se MATITA STACEY
axa protection touramen, mmm she, and ane eed supplies comes no an combination
ampact of conductocs toc feeders not ener 100 oli ac or f continuous and gnc aous Yad, the catlg al the ener
pn valo de nomina Caen dere sha i de iena e eo ns od
formal Note: Sec Patt IH of Avi 294 far feeder mer plus 125 percent of the continuous bad.

1000 ko 500 wl Exciion: Whew th assenti, inchuding the memaren dre
215.2 Mina Rating and Sim. tig de Ire © MI J en ti 0 rim Sl
(39 Genera, bc chars shall have a amps 74 ASNT UL outdo lpr dn
den fan Ler 1 20000 ox CAN and po
ia TAN
{L) Continuous and Noncontimaous Loads. Where a Feeder ssp ith Comman Neutral Cor a
Supplies cons ost or ans Soro of comms (A) Feder vith Common Neutral. Up to the: set al Bis
oncom te the a Fo orm ee of Be sab per mite
Sal hate an on Eo i omcond nuo ad to esac aed
Pr 1 petceni at the hao od
Exeipiion So 1: 17 tto ast, setuing e verme dirs
i a sao N pormi af it
sos [Ep

Coma HEA or ce ae ce PA rg ces or sr couric, rics
BE ay en weeny


--- PAGINA SUCCESSIVA ---

ANTicLE 218 —HEEDERS siste
(8) In seni Racevay or Enclonace, Where isiallog in a metal Gugin No. 218 indurito, roy condition e main:
yor on all Caduto ol in eh an npn tte ar ont od pons ers
ming è on mh coronal be wb foo, laden ema si de RI nomini
Ta eet amt hom cn po,
215.5 Diagrams of Feeders 1 requicd by the author "Onin SIONS, Wilt (he comncin a sims ino
fee edei aridi al di
Pongo nor STATON i THT 5.12 Memento for Fender
pan stai how ih atta sce Lo of pling 0
Site structure supplica lx cach ocd, the tol calculatod (4) Grounded Conductor The grounded conductor of a
fis moc supplied by cach coer, he al calmed) STO, So bo dano Ce Mii
the calculated lop atter appling demand factors, and the size 2006.
item ® Equipment Grounding Condes. The cquipment
re pete tote rousing Cone, Whe a Seo condo, sa mei erie il
teeder supplies branch ciccuits in which cquipment grounding 20117:
ae veto eee sha Aco rol a (@) Ideniiication of Ongronded Conductor, Ungenunded
equipment grounding conductor, 0 which the cquipment conductors shall be denied in accordance with 215.1231)
pt I Te
El Wie oe supplier a sro bsg or sir adire s
the cou ements of 250.8 shall appl. A) Feeders Supplied from More Than One Nominal Vonage
ne Gere Th premiate ang ore har E
2057 Onpuandea Conduriare Tapped from Gromdea SEE 2 pome OE, en he ook
Syms. Trowite de ices and ae rats of fun or TOKE ded coe of a fee shall bee by phase
ungrounded conductors shall be permitted to be tapped rom. oc linc and system at all termination, connection, and splice
the ungrounded conductors of cul hast a Sioned eis compliance wah 218 1201) 20a (0) 5)
ara cot Suching devia och tappeti ret Pr nro
shall hac a pole in cach ungrounded conductor. be pean tobe lo separate colo cog, mad
215.9 Ground Fault Gireu-nterropter Protection for Person. tape, tagging, or other approved means
EP fo rm 1" Pos of bacon gan The metlod utilirca toc
groundiaul circuit niecrapier installed na tradily accossitte  Conduciors aciginating within cach Icoder panclboard oc simi-
location in lieu of the provisions tor such ntecruptors as spo. 3 focder distribution equipment shall be documented in a
locaton in fe af th pr nanne al È er bi on sh be pees cd
first ai Sinlat Iced! Aia ten
215.0 Grou Pauli Protection of Equipment, Each [coer MOR
Cisco sarei is Tn so mote ant eich on soll
Sa e er mi (E) Fenders Suppl from Be Creat Sym. hes a
mn oe lial me: dimore Han 10 vole ae a
md bu ore Tp ee oi ld Fo rps ali
provid tl gr platy i
plico pone be ea ap: ppg ob sop
formal Nove Sec 57.1 Forbin diatconiala heak cans cach ungraded conductor of AWC or sali shall
fan BE ts di ai main Socios oo
asset sl ot apy desig mens S51 pl Ener al SB BE arl AH
mtn a de Tu coi dl io a diem wn oe ch
fera cmos itu pre mi ig wane oca ho Se ei Go
Pari one shall be ements as thr
agio So. 2: Phi so shit uy rust prion eas wm of ha. promane ly po ot cach ester
of equiment è prosat on ho “apply sas of 0 poder and on had panclboard or ilar feeder Artin equipment
ERPs meth phe or ov ky Sun 5 so So Wh th posi
docs be io
pono 7 rump nto ar vet omg SSP RAST Bs ms se omen
rrr to a facility for wp. maintenance, ov ewengenies, grand ool Se Ge by one of the following means
Ff lr tt wd: om pelo v
Jo recon, of quent bt we be round. Tempo fein A communis ed outer fish
rt rh is BX nen ape durablr rach along he
a dotato dea col o
not be derive from auotransformers unless the system ©» mg EW dl ple Li he word POSITIVE or POS
Spie ant ooo de Shc coi mpg plus i) or the cd POSITIVE or 08
ted to agrounded conductor of the system supplying the auto- green. whic, gray, or black, and cepeatod at intervals not
Fane im Sin i se ee sith SO AU
oo. A toto sh prt thu he 1) paid PANE Tag a Sc
een eget mee O QAR ariani the andai: fi
comrion to a grinded coir ww ming Joma torni SILAS nee oe coc se
REL ol Hoi suppl ors Jom 240 vo tsi 5 be word POSTE POS


--- PAGINA SUCCESSIVA ---

wats ARTICLE 720 BRANCILCIKCUIT FEEDER, A ND SERVICE LOAD CALCULATIONS
durably marked on insulation of a olor other than
pren utile. guar or black e ARTICLE 220
regalino po of a de etero dote oi scova ao the con ‘Branch Circuit, Feeder, and Service Load
i fo toe Stet conduzio, each negate ungrounded Calculations
condutior oak be oni oe of the Fk ea
1 A continous black outer finish
@ A continuous black stripe durably marked along the Part General
RTS STATA mor se Tie ade potas coco co
than green, white, ra, or cod ing branchciccut, feeder, and service inads, Part | provides
0 apr Minor ene ( or the ord NEGATIVE or MEA coglione moon sk. Part I Penice
NEL rat marked on sation of a eolor other than Ao ae e Mao ar at
econ, white, gray, or ced, and repeated at itervals not Fart IN provide calculation methods for feeder and scrvico
Ceca iO mr (ZA in in accordance WER IO AS) Pn N provider aon. moth lor farm out
{9 An approscd permanent marking means such as siceving part VI provides calculation methods for health care faciltics
ki oa is sustable for the condaziorsite i Pari VAT pom eo aa
all termimtion, connection, and splce points. with floating buildings, and commercial and noncommercial dock
Aprite Tos Signo E) De the wid NEGATIVE home
NE ay mare on lation of a color ath han = ses
SE doth ed Ciro a ee mine avea on
215.45 Baers. ards shall be place such that no ce . .
orion Note oS rand ok Fir 220,
sibile serving load tenninatione in pancbnards, sithbaatds, 203 Other Articles for Specific Purpose Calcalations. Table
Sita or reso conirol conor append ape i 2905 Mall provide telerenate fo ge purpose akon
IDET of rant secondary condor in SIO) toque not ated in Chapters 5, 6, 07 hat amend oe
Snc he decomeding devo io ahich bo tap mmdaziore  sipPiementine segui mente af als arele
Setermaatoa, rin the open position
215,18 Surge Protection.
ee De —
the ling. fg pore device SP) hall be mar
pi
() beelling unite
(Goce monsand guest sutesof hotels and roils
{5 Atcar of nursing homes and limiredeare Tashi uscd
salse ss patent epg ome
® Location. The SPD shall be installed in ox aden to Fanti i AI
Snribation equipment. conneetoti to he kad side of he Feoder ana ecvealond | eats [ Opto ececsns
ender ha conan branch cleat owas: proven phir Frog re
tee ht apy ne ocationt soci 2151008 7 r
Lnformational Not: Surge protccean is mint eave her i i
fright oy megabit) i
© Type, The SPD shall be a Tpe Lox Tape 2 SPD. i T
(Dì Replacement. Where the distribution equipment supplica i i
by the feeder i ceplaced, all of the coquicements of this section
Ball app
© Rating, 5x suli base a nomial discharge ven [gr =
ating hot nor les than WEA. EI) csc
ower | ee ia
fitch
fii
Informational Note Figure £261 Branch Cis, Feeder, and
Serie Lona Canton Meds
wo [IE Ep—
Com IEPA. For cs seo EPA Fi cess ai bo be oor coselonarg ics
aes aan oe was earn os


--- PAGINA SUCCESSIVA ---

ARTICLE 20 — BRANCILUIRCUIT, FEEDER, AND SERVICE LOAD CALCULATIONS mi
220.5 Catalans. men, or both, the cequitemens of 4405 shall apply. For
Chet ruppling Wad consisting of moto. opr cat sation
(A) Voltages. Unkse other sokages arc specificd, for purposes «CT SPE fastencd in place and hes a motoc lacger
of calculating branch circuit and feeder lode. nomial sstem ian hp in combination ith other lese, the total calculated
Joka of 120 120/240. 20/120, di, STI, ANNI, dA 102] hal be basca on 128 pect of the latgest motor kad
6008/347, and 600 volts shal be use, plus ihe sum of the other baa in accordance wih 45024
® Fractonsofan Ampere. Calailatione shal be permiticd to
be tounded to the neatesi whole ampere, ath drama fm. (I Induces and LED Lighing Loads For circuit supplying
be minded 9 he poet wh lighting nis hat have ballot, ansforme re, autora:
of or LED deere, the calculated kad shall be based on the
«€ Flo Area. The floc arca for cach floor shall be akula: total ampere rating: of such is and nok on the toval wats of
fromthe outside dimensione of the bull, dwell unt, the amps
or othce acca nvobed For dvelling unit, the Calculated Hook arc Cooks Appling demand fates for
arca shall not la open porches or inched areas not Sion a ooo E APP Appi dean etc
adaptable for future use as a habitable oom oc ocaupiabl quid other household cooking appliance nad in excess of 1%,
pace EW shall be price in accordance with Table 22035, incl
ing Notesd, 5. and 6
Put. Branch Circuit Load Calculations 220.4 Other Loads — All Occupancis. Branchiccut bud
calculations shall incide calculation of a minimam bad on
22010 Genera Branch elett ows shall be ceed n SEIT 2 shin SE mn ad
"| Simro to cstablih the kad on he branch feti
(1) 220.14 for othceloads —all occupancies
(2) 720.36 for ad tions to cxisting inetaliatione In all orcupanciea, he minima kod fo cach outlet for
(3) 20.41 for dwelling unit cab teceptades and outicts no: used for general lumi
(4) 22042 for lighting hock for nonbeelling occupancics Ration. shall nok be ee than that calcolate in 220.1 4A)
Terni rot (0, vt the a soe beg bass on eid
220.11 Manion Load. The total ad on a branch deen s
shall not cz the rating of the branch cect no dhe maxi Lion The tondi of ots sing shiners and soicing
mam a. peciicd in 20 ANA) through (0) under the ON in ene exchanges shaltbe ued pom the caution.
Conditions peated thotch ta) Spese spp Loads, An out fo i
dances or Loads, An outlet for a specie
(A) Mator-Opensied and Combination Loads. Where a dircuia appliance oc Wet load nor covered in 220 14(8) through (K)
supplies only moto pcra] oad, the conduca: Arig Shall be calaulated based on the ampere cating of the appliance:
cequitement speglicd in 450.22 shal apply. Where a cecut OF oad served
supplic only aicconditioning equipment, CCEA Sp (B) Electric Dryers and Eleciric Cooking Appliancra in Duel
ings and Household Cooking Appliance Cred in rstracicnal
Programs. Load caklations shall be permet as speci ia
Table 203 Specific Parpose Calculation References 2094 fot clecie depts and in 2205 for coe fang and
—_— pale
iso Anite 22” (©) Motor Outets The conductor sing cequirements spec
Cwm aide Bu S024 and $90 shall bo nee to determing he
Namie aot wicca wo Bal leak moi ade
rime ban haben
odor io (D) Luminaires. An outer suppling a laminaice (5) shall be
foes wo #08 Caan) bad on the maximum doltampere rating of the
Fel pag cpio @ 15 equipment and lamps for which the Luminaie(s) Is ato.
Sig ee brates (E) Hesvy Duty Eampholders. Outets for heaved lag
Bacchi peeing si ss folder cha be calette at a minima mat 000 wisps?
en bean baie izle
pirdosidone cea ding and se sms E Sign and Outi Lutting, gn and udine Nghiing
gine sen. bah O i Te branch cite amt
e ime ha (6) Show Windows, Show widows shall be cakulatod in
Nor fer demand Gor se siano accordance whither he follwing:
Nom malitner al ombinaion: 130 BAZ) The unit kad per out as roguired in other proskions
(mattenuimeni of this section
MODA Cral moro or ameno rt se #02 Arg00 volamperes per lincar $00 mm di) of show
der mated oo
Ortho and Lk de EO
[neti (9) Ford Malone! Aembiies. Fixed mlioutst aserm
One ook fender askin BE WANG bik usod in other than duelling Units the guest coors or
Pie comer ammators i pr
futons ey in ai
res in NANA ELECTRA CODE 10-98
Copan NEPA Sor ci se or EPA Fr Access ator RI dr Gilt coor Bar cr vice
[AR ep me eoPlati lGNidiriaa Gia


--- PAGINA SUCCESSIVA ---

guest suites of hotels or motels shall be calcubated in accord. ni a indude the following lighting and coceptade

emi the following ies. and no adional bad caleviatione hah be oath

(1) Where appliance are unk io be used simuliareorsiy, (1) All generabiue reeeptad utes of ampere fing oF
ah 370.5 5 x ation rere of such separato and on melon recepiarkes connecisd to to hss Fe
continuous ig shall be considered as one outlet i Sed in ZIP OG) ana (OI
Fot lerr ian Wi voliampese ar The pas outlet tpociled in 20 528) and (ti

cn Wocte appliance are kl to be uscd simuliancosly, 8) The lighingoudica pected in zia 7A
a 80 va AL {0 or fraction Liens be consid

110 or facion decent shall be “The minimum lighting load shal be detennincd using the

ered asan owtlctof not lossthan 40 vol amp minimum unit bad and the leo arca as determi in

For the purposes of i win, the calubtion shall be EEDA for cling ceupanc Moters raed lese thant bp

period 1 be barcd on the portoni that contains reecpiarlex and connette ima BT clean shall be considered pat of
in igh a

© Recepuacie Outlet, Except as covered in 22041 and

ZIP AMI terepiatie le shall be calculated at not lose than 2642 Lighting Load for Non Dvelling Occopancies.

Ao oe 0 EF oh PEE ST A) Gopal A init ind of ani os ian mt sched in

ion one vole A sigle pice of co fa BETTI for nondimelling octupanze? and dhe door

Mmultpie selcpiacle eomprica of four ot mote 1 packs Jone

male prep compie of fou of mo ep: LL delcrmaed in S310) al be et lo oleh Toc

tis be appicabic To hd eeepc mms ighting oad Motore rate oe than 5 WF and

outlets spocitiod in 21011601) and (C)(2). fomocted to a lighting circuit shall be coneidered general
peo
) Recepcie Ones in Office Building. In office bigs. .

hi pie Toa shall be caleubicd fo be the larger of the he i Tonks TMA re

ow li on ss aon os oro

The calenlatoa load rom 2201403 pir

© 11 vok-ampeces/m” (1 vok-ampere/ 7) (B) Energy Code, Whore the budding & designed and

(K) Other Outiets, Other outlets not covered in 2201403) constructed to compb with an cncegy code adopted by the

Rh hl hud bo on PR vamp pe ear Reh ina hall e rem to be le

a Bicd using the wit luce pact he avy code whee

oat eating tas te ol conditions are met

16 Loads For Addilions 19 Existing Enstallations. (1) A power monitoring system is installed that will provide
ca) Dvelliog Ont Loade add to an exiting Anelli oie informato regarding th total gonecal Aghi

Cini) na orl wih the lng as applicable” ire load of the ing.

(1) Loads for structural additions to an existing dwelling unit @ The power monkaring stem will be sct witli alm
oro a previously init sd portion of an sci ll salu to alert th ung once oc manager if the light
ing ai shall be ealeulate 1 accordance wih EM ing oa nce te salus setta the ene code. Atto.

Load for now ccuits or extended cecuits in previous matic means to take action to roduce the connects
wired dwelling uni shall be caleulatd in accordance shall be permittod. i
ozo © The dear factors spi in 22043 not applied

te general ing Ko

®) Otter Tuan Dueling Orit. Loa for ve cocks or 1) Te continui kat mulipliee of 125 percent shall be

tendo cita bet tha dell ane shall be in ey

hares web FRE EAE E014 SSP. 030 me page In ate ng, te cece

ens shall be caleubated to be the beger of the flowin

Pari HH. Feeder and Service Load Calculations () The calidad from 2201440 after Table 22047

Amare aor. bane been applied

22040 General The calculatca load af a feeder or service a et

shall not be less than the sum of the loads on the branch (2) 11 vok-ampores/m oc | voltampere/ i

tis supplica, as determine by Pari I of tir rfl, alter 22048 Hotel and Moel Oscupances. In guest sams cst

ans applicable demand factors permea or cegurcd by stes of eres and moto he folloseig Btn and ren

Fo NANI: Vil ave boca appli de out are included i the minimi ini od in Table

Engin, and no additional load caisubtione hal be
bisonaationa Xote Na, È See ome Annes D, Exons
Dla through DIO. for came of ferder and erie bad coquired for such outicis:
ida () Al generali cecepiade outs of hamper rating ox
_-— a hagas pede ove of shang vg di
EE Sind wit. ri on on HHO an OO
ovement Tr e Th ei pars as specie in 210 528)

5) The ighingoudes stint in 21050

220.41 Duelliog Unita Minimum Orit Lond. In onc.farit

Coa, and kar cling. fre mari, anit load

shall be not os ian 88 lamps 0 (3 vol pt.

pe [UE

Cop EPA. ores ve ce NEPA Fog cess afr Flo oir couric nrc
aes aan oe was earn os


--- PAGINA SUCCESSIVA ---

 ANMIGLEWO_BKANGILCIRCUIT, FEEDER, AND SERVICE LOAD CALOLIATIONE 290.56
Table 26.0208) GeneralLighting Loads by Non Dueling Table 220.45 Lighting Load Demand Factors
Ocaapaney ——— — -
_ Porios of Lighting Losd 10
onion hich Danan Factor Applics Demand
Volamperes/  Vowamperes/ _TpeolOopaoy Chdmperwn ~~ Faorch)
Tre of Occupancy pi © Dusting nin Finson a CY
Semis i 1 [E From Lo 200004 Hi
Comenion canter 5 Us JE LG TU
Comin i [I Haka wc, Fini 200005 esa w
faces i Jo og rare. Fro 20001 to 190900 ai bi
Elim emer i [i ome ntinei Romaine [0D
Firesiation Ji Jot semi or
Corman! Ww i twa ss
Hehosechic hi ie >
Heh i Le Warebooia Gini) Fini Marna 1
Hoar morct or i i wade mr (200
atone hone witht Mother Tola solvanpere: or
prebstorconking by er re ee RA
es dé i of fre tela a i hich ant vere he
[I i 0 Core bwin ah i be te line ne no dining
Motion pers heer in i oo.
fri i i
oie i is
lincar oot shal be included for a show winds, measured ho
Palagano i 63
Eenkenirs i t2 rontalivabng as base
Performing atta heer 16 [i Unformational Note: Se 20403 oc branch ccm ing
Eon i id tei
Fiber i i
Regn its 2% i (B) Track Lighting For rack lighting in other than dwelling
psn i i aie or guest coor or guest Suitet of hotels of mata, an
Ret © He i additional oa of 150 voll'armperes shall be included foe every
Sion nie i I 610 mm 2 10 of lighting ack or fraction thereof, Where
Soran 16 [i multiciccult rack is ital, the load hall be considered to be
Tom ll i ti divided eguali: beeen rack re
Toman is 2
Wire i 2 Esasgtion: 1 te toch ihtng pid Hong di thar iis
oral I i dr cuni i thr sh: i dont sel br gente to de coleuated
Rote The 125 percen mk er for eotinom boa al pecan Gase on he rating of he device used oud o caren
RARER indie, hero ool mak che 2057 Recepiarde Lows Oey Toon Dwling Gols
evr shen he nh Hr Lg he preety Jom Than PE Oni,
i gb ft tes (i shall be peominod to be mato miei i]
ram an attori a om seed priore ctr goon in Table 220.45 ox Table 220.5
Loge fo cia to hasan moc 22656 Motors and Air Conditioning Equipment
Inter mim bigest co Hered mating. hd
peo (A) Molare. The conductor rising cequitements speciliod in
naar ove 5020 and 5025 and the lecder demand factor calulation
Comal eh pops sore cio sok method speed in 430.26 shall be use to determine motor
capes load.
abc comer raat ssn ci
: ®) ir Comin ment The conductor si
ee eli. ® ArCondisoning Equipment Toe, soir 50%
“Surcvarc mired cul wane deteemne ie confcioning loade for hermetic. cof dgerant
tor compro,
200.45 General Lighting. The demand factors specified in
Table 22045 shall app to tht portion of the ital branch ates or Non e
circuit load calculated for general mination. They shall no Foe 22047 Demand Faciors for Non Dueling Receplace
be applic in determining the number of branch aces for 2%
on -
s Forts of Receprale Lodo
206.45 Show Window and Track Lighting. Which Deas Factor pies
(A) Show Windows. Fox show-vindow lighting, a md of not ee ivotràmpereel Demand Fsetor (%)
less than 650 voll'amperes/lincar mcr of 2 vollamperes/ Fr IRINA Na 100
Remainder over RAD I
Deb NANA ELECTRA CODE ne
Copan NEPA So cin we or [EPA Fr Access ator RI tr Gilt Gon BRGre, ce vice
For tunes ceria Soe Gin Gra “o apr Ahan dea sce Care] legali ia Gta


--- PAGINA SUCCESSIVA ---

est ARTICLE 220 BRANCILCIRCUIT, FEEDER, AND SERVICE LOAD CALCULATIONS.
22051 Fixed Eiecuic Space ening. Fined cleric space. Table 22054 Demand Faciorsfor Household Eleciic Globes
Hearing ds shah be case at (90 peicont of the cal Dryers
cometiod bac reve, in no cate shall a fecder or service
fond Curent rating he Fe than the rating ol the Brg branch pro [rer
Ges phe EA Peg
Exton: en odin of concn rs on unk op 14 100
ting on dtr (rir, on fem all units 0 og dl 7 i
hr me ti, the toy ewig isin shall be emit a è a
on or fto nd anice outs far ar angari5 H a
ia 00nd th oni a an Hor ho 10 H &
ret H pa
220.52 Smalt-Appbance and Laundry Loads — Dwelling Unit. " »
(A) Srl Appiance Circ Load. In cach deelling unit, the ge
EE sol pte foo ore pa ins 8 rca dnt
atc branch Shu a dd TG, eel
occ th rad © ube Teg Mo ar more Redere, the we FR miner 5% reach der
calcuicd oa for cach shall Inch not less an 1500 So. ceding 5
ampercs for ach fess smallapplanc branch cireutt, These =
foot shall be penziticd to be luded mi te general light Mandel
ing load and subieeted to the derma nd acho provided in Table
ni Table 22035, Klowltamperes (VA) shall be considered
Esegion: Th individual ranch cut pewita by 210.320841), equivalent 9 Kowa (00) for Joa calla under tit
Extn No.2 shall perma to de Ao te coleutation EIN
equim; 220.32, Where ox eee single phase cans are supplica br a
(ì Laundry Circuit Load. A load of no: less than 1900 voli. phase, Jui fcr of service, the total load shall be alc
n be nea fer cachi od ind ranch ed on dhe base af vice the. manina number conncered
Clb installed as covered by 210 1132). The load shall be between ans tn phases
premited to be inclded wi the general lighting had a tory Note No. L See Ioana Amen D far case
pali be subiectod to he demand facors provide in Table pie
ras formar Note No. 2 See Table 220.46 fr demand futon
22055 Appliance Load — Dueling Oniish Applying 3 Tore orbi esiment
Tort more apple ods hp or greater or Bi mal o 2036 Rilchen Equipment — Ober Than Dueling Ona:
la po Calularing he bad for commercial chet Cooking SHIP:
greater, that are fered in place, and that are served by ho UE her booster heater, wer heater, and die
i dwclling shall be peckice This demand acer shall not REC equipment in accordance with Table 22036 shall be
1s dling ul be P permitcd Other kiichea equipment shall include wipe
d that is steno in place and tated ¥ bp or greater o Bi wate
(1) Hiouschold clocri coking equipment that & fastenod in or geeanet Tse demand factor: shall be applied 0 all pity.
place Tn hat bas thes theomosati conzrolor SEAN! ie se
@ Clots dryers chen caupment. These demand fattori shall not apis to
B Spare beni oquiprene spare heat ventana sr condom equipment
Alteondtioning coupe
He ment (EVSE merce. In no case shall he foes ar ses called
pg Pe O, han the sur a the es two kn cquipment
ect Clothes Dryers — Donliog Onis). The kad bode
for bouschold loc chore dyes a dvelling ani) shal
ahs 00 mato fame ar de apts ig, 2057 ec Vic Supply Equipment (EVSE) Low. The
ene Tore Ti ESE load shal be caleulatd a cile 72 rats Gon
demand factors in able 22051 shall be pe AIS here two Ampere ar he name late rating of th cpap xhehovcr
or more singie.phase devs are supplied by a hbase ate IF Age.
Foe oc sic, the total kh shall be caleilated on the basis 2050 Noncoincideni Loads, If alice that te ar more
of ice the maximum number connected BERET any ino onenineden bad ll be ln hc Smile ven only
phases. Kilvoltamperes (VA) shall be considered equbalent ie largest oad that will be uscd at one lime fo caleilatng
to kot (KW) for had caloalatcd in the section. Re ET ea e e a oe celebs
212035 Electric Cooking Appliances in Dueling Units and motor Gr altcondiloning Mud par of the noncoincident
Uonmebold Cooking Applances md nal Sis ht er load ac aeons load
pos ponent cooling ner, dvd Jit el Sis frp Sh
Bouschold cooking appliances individuali rated in cacce of
C50 shal be pesraiied to be salted in atrordance vita
10% VNALELECTR ALE NE
Cooyeeri IEPA, Fo skye so NEPA rs Agcesi afr NOI or Gul Coss or vie
For veunes on 1 se no 5 70 pr ato Se C86 ESHA


--- PAGINA SUCCESSIVA ---

EE ee atea

mT dar teerdona darai
una €
II =

Wii oppo lo


--- PAGINA SUCCESSIVA ---

ma ARTICLE 220 — BRANCIILIRCUIT, FEEDER, AND SERVICE LOAD GALGU LATIONS
‘Table 220.56 Demand Facrors for Kitchen Equipmen — permite to be used in Inad calculatione fo the feeder or sere
Other Tian Due lling Uninc le.
———————————————————————  Thcuctpoint vale ofthe EMS shall be considered a conti
Numberof Unis of Demand Factor ous oar the purposes of load calcilatione.
Epes I
1 w
B fi Pari tY. Optional Feeder and Service Load Calculatione
3 » £20.80 General. Optional feeder and service Ind calculatione
1 » Sta) be pr in accordance wi Pari I:
sand over è 22082 Dueling Onis
(A) Feeder and Service Load. Th section apples to a ddl
220561 Fender or Service New) Lond. ing it ing nar Connected od ened ly 3 singe
3 Sion on 20547 [volt set of Sanne sere 07 feeder
(As Basic Calcuiaion. The feeder or service neural load shall - eo E a Akad
conductors with an ampacity or greater, to
be the maximum unfalance of he loa determined by is art iil 10 caleulate the feeder and rag: load in accor
de. The maimum unbalanced oar shall be the maximum net on wi os set et o ae me pen
esata oad between the neural conductor and ans onc Far of ti ancl. The calla load sal be the remit of
ungrounded conductor adding the load from 2205808) and (0). Feeder and service
Eaptons For ai, 29h or Sain, 2p sso, the manimam SPTACE Conductor where cacated loa desermined by
ambulante oat shali be inn att calrubrrd nd tue hy optional calculation shall be permite to have the neal
i condarior and an oe sgn onducioy maltiplint by Joa determined bs 220).
to pere (B) General Loads. The genera calculated Toa shall be not
() Permined Reductions. A service or feeder supphing the lese than 100 percent o he Tre 10 VA pls 40 percent of the
following load: anal De permated 10 have an adeionai remainder of the following oar:
demand factor of 7 perni applica to the amount in (1) 38 wiamperew/m or 3 witamperes/(F for general
0 GL) (1) and a porion of the amount in 220.8 NBI2). lighting and generale rece paci, The lloo area for
i each Toor shall be caleulated from the umide omen.
(1) Honsebala Electric Ranges, Walk Mound Overs, Counter:
x sons ofthe dwelling unit. The caleulated Noor arca shall
Moumed Cooking Unie. and Dryers. A feeder or sere te oor
muppising household clcre. ranges, salmo med overs fet include oben porches. garage, or used or untin
poling angen he spaces not adapuame or ne ve,
Counter monte cooling nis, and cece rer. where he 1p JF tre we
2) 1300 toltamperes for cach are, Mampere smal
Maximum unalanced oar hat heen determined in accord posa Lute, ampere smal
ance with Table 220.55 or ranges and Table 220.84 for crsem. appliance branch cresta cach:
2) Unbalanced Load in Excess of 200 amperes. That portion (3) The nameplate rang of the (lowing:
of the unnalanced load in escess of 0 amperes whee the An appliances tat are xen in pi "
a. All appliances that are fastened in piace, permanently
fecder or series supple from a aie de or single pha ae nici o locate 1 be on a pecile crei
sem: a duire, phase sie; Sure, phe sistem: ora b. Kangen, wall monnted oxen, center monte cook
ire phase ss. broke
formal Not: Sex ona Amie D. Empics DI ©. Clothes dives that are not connected wo the laundry
BI. DR, DIA). an BEC) Ta col of mars ranch dreutspeckid in 2208282)
Teron emit nea has Water heaters
© ProbbieaRecucions. Thre sal be no ection ofthe (The 127s ampere or LA rag ofa penmaneniy
neal or grounds conduictor capacity applied 10 the amount i
in 20.61), or orion of the amount in (CHE). from hat (€) Heming and Ar.Conditioning Load. The largest of the
determined by the te calulzion following si setections oad in EVA) shall be ince
1) Any portion of a Sure circu consisting of 2 ungrows (1) 100 percent ol the nameplate rating) of the air cond
ict Eanes and the nears conductor oa 4aAiTe, 5 oningand coating. 1
phme aye connected patemi (2) 100 percent of the famepiate ratings) of the heat pump
€) at portion commiting of nontincar loads supple from heh the heat pump is used hows any mipplemenni
a wire, weconnerie phase ser Scie heating.
(8) 100 percent of the nameplate ratings) of the heat pump
Uformaionl Note: A Sylar. mie, specced poni i
“ver ad to San pone! E iooliozai lost mihi pet sompressor and percent o the supplement) electric
E hr e mes es dei does for he pbs o heating for central electric space-neating stems. If the
Kg Rara nea ped heat pump compressor is prevented from operating at
he rime ime ae the supplementary heat, does not
220.70 Energy Managemem Sysems EMSs If an coergy need tobe added 0 the pple mentary hes or ine 101]
management sem (ENS fs 120d to mit he current 10 2 rental space heating loa
Today or service in accordance with 780.90, a single vole (4) 8 pave of ine aap raungli) of cicci space
equal tthe maximum ampere setpoint of the EMS shall be heating i ew than four separate ls controlled i.
106 SSTONALELECTRAL CODE Breton
Coat NEPA For ent ve ue or NEPA Free Access stn Net fr as Buon Gu gian ar pnt
Far aa ono user roar om APS use coat RE


--- PAGINA SUCCESSIVA ---

ARTICLE 720 — BRANCILCIRCUIT, FEEDER, AND SERVICE LOAD GAL LATIONS was
© 40 percent of the ramepiate ratngli) dl electric space 220.44 bit amity welling
eating Hot or more paras Carole ins. i
1 Seite more parate onvolledunis, (ay FederorService Load, Ista be permimitic io calciiate
cn alte ni gi of clectie emma] (he load el a louder or service that Pups Gee x More
storage and other eg Mater were he a od
rage are ober Meine mies here ne wil oats LL init of 2 maia cling accordate mn
oper do be conte a be Ll mameplie ale, ie ea of Far 1 of in sic dl al The
Ted under ang She section in 0 RIC) follaving conditions are met
i i {1 No dueling unt s supplied by more than one feeder.
120.83 Existing Dueling Unit This section shal be permed. 1 ing unt in pict none fcter,
meme iT, Fan doling ape vat e ing
slficient capacity to serve additional logdx Where the dseTing quip
Ins served In 2 Fy Bel on JON Omer Suir ries Excion: War the carton oa for slay doings without
or loot cloning the total 10d accordance wih srs cog Ft 1 of ts ac pele tt calo ata amin
Toa or 19 sale periti Pani fo 1 mid Gls de abn tered on 3 N per
os ate kona Comin Equipment or Ele “1814 0] on adn or petto to br ae
Space tiening Equipment È Not to BE fartalied. The percen (9 Each delling unit iv equipped with cher electric space
oat IA Tae Toa) anali De aed dor extttng a hosing of ai contorna ‘o both. Feeders and setae
one now load Comair whose cated vad i determine by ini
Load cleations shall ince the lowing: piena) cigiion sel be eminem ine
1 Gener ligiting and generatiue recepace at 35 wit
ee Ee em ®) Home Loads. ious Touts sal be clad in accord
Spe or 8 soltamperes/ti! as determine by oc an shal be in addition do he
@ 1300 soltamperes for cach Zaire, Mampere small.  dwelling unit loads calculared in accordance with Table
appliance branch cuit and cach Inindry branch circuit 220898).
cowred in ZIO. LOI) and (C112) {AC} Calulaed Loads. The alculated load to which the
(3) The nameplate rating of the loving. demand factors of Table 220 BATE) appiy shall inchide the
a. A appliances that are taste red in piace, penmanentiy following
connected, or located to be on a specific circuit (0) 55 wltamperex' mt or 5 wltamperes/it for general
td. Ranger, salt mai niod ven, Comper monic cole lighting and genera recopades
ingtnis cn 1800 Woitamperer dor ach Fae, Mampere smal:
©. Clothes dyer that are not connected to the urs appilance branch eeu and cach mi branch Grech
ran cron speci in fem E commedia IL) and (CE
d. Water heaters 43) The nameplae rating of the following.
®) Where Adciona Air.Condiionig Equipment or Electric a. A appliances that are enc in piace, permanenty
Spuck resin Eguipment La 10 Be alle Tre perce niger. tor octet be ana pec Cre
Bed in Table 20 Gar shal be sacd for xing art adele td. Range, sired oer, coer monte col
Sona mr logi. The gr conte. load of os esnelitoninE broach
race hetng, Ma nol bolli, sa neve ©. the yer hat are noi connected to the tury
Sane respected mem (2
Other load shal incu the following ramen crow
(1 Genera fighting and generatose recepacls at 38 wl (8) Toe namepiate ampere or KV rating of al penmanenty
mai oF 3 samp few mined oy connected motor ot ned teh 8)
beh (3) Toate of ea common ak ofthe fed dec
@ 1500 witamperes for cach Tore, Mampere small ep heating Ion
appliance wah cireuit and each nay branch rest e
covered in ZIO. LEO) and {CZ 220.85 Two E Goi, Where two dwelling units are
Toe ameptae rang of ie dolloming Sipe by a ge Fda or sie and he red oud
er Vari Ml ol tis article coeds sat der see ines
a. All appliances that are lastened in place, permanentiy nts calculated under 220.89, the lesser of the two loars shall
nnacted or locaterl to be ona pec Creat mr
bn. Tange, sired oer, Comper moc cole
broach
<i yer hat are not connected to the Tan
‘ranch crei specie into (2) 7 Tuble 220,85(B) With Additional AirConditioning or Electric
d. Water heaters Space Heating Equipment
‘Table 220.858) Without Additional Ar-Conditioning or feed  Peemoflow
Electric Space Festing Equipment Snai equipe ww
s Eadp Cenual cocurc space heating hes
nop [4
JR Tr St Vlei sco
Fema atimd an 100 Fos ATE other mo
Remainder Alou Kemer ota my pds ‘o
destin SATONALEL ERK AL CONE wm
Copa NEPA Foren a use co NEPA Fr ess fr fra tin con cus rg
aE avons,


--- PAGINA SUCCESSIVA ---

ma ARTICLE 220 BRANCILCIRCUIT, FEEDER, AND SERVICE LOAD CALC LATIONS
‘ble 2048) porn Calculatione — Demand Factor for 2087 Desermining Exising Load The alison of a
Time ox More Mums Dueling Oni {ects or serce Tou for exging waldo sal be peri.
ete ine actual aim demand to determine the Song
pr pena aci omnes como
Dueling Unita or Gh The maximum demand data is avaiable or a tyear
5 5 period.
pe " api: tto miu dr data for a Ly period i not
E: A maitalio, the caeuinted toad soli be promited i be based on the
m m ims demand he ht sng ios eck mn
ws Fi Tana for a 13 minato id) coin rw com a mint
fred pi gun da) pro in + rein rs pots mt
iid i ovat 0 5 et ood os of 3 ero be e on
fied = nial aig ni the sani dite remain Te ening sil
Rh ite masini demand of be fedora Sento by ning ohn
a“ 7 Cs ig eve epi and mal ois ra
Pe H eo allatta dio mg o] tt bo aitag en condi quin toa
we s ud sito ft Tut ER peri vir dar to snes
ped i mies conditi Fa i sha vor met To prev er
kx E mk hi a meals rar tem 1 i post on nd
E 7 Teton emo fr) ok load Gi
5 E © The maximum demand at 125 percent plus the new load
ww » does not exceed the ampacity of the feeder or rating of
aa pid the service.
ar E] 9) The feeder has overcurrent protection in accordance
ree i: sth 1108, and ine seve is overt protection in
pear H eine win 28050
Eel 5 220.88 New Resiaurams. Calculation of a service or feeder
wil un load, where the feeder servos the total load, for a new restau
raise WR Somnath accordance siti Tae 220 Nin Tel
STN of binarie
220.86 Schools. The calculaon of a feeder or service Im or Tre overioad protection al he service conto shall be in
School li be period in accordance vil me MON n a a protection oe
Teel Pari Ul of is article where capped cate space °°
Mean air conditioning. os Fooder conductors shall not be required to be of greater
eR de mana facto dl Tone ZEON apps Mali include  ampadiy tan the sks conc
al of the interior and exterior lighting, power, water heating, Service or feeder conductors whose calculate oad i deter
ooking other ed, and he larger oC he SCOSONNE oca ba Mi opsonal ealcilaton alal le ped tare
fatt spate heating lori Die dg o MENSE ined i son cucunion al
Feoders and sence conductors whore cali oad is
determine by ih poral lcyation shall be pT 10
fue the a oa ilari nen Bo VOLL: ME th Id. Pari V, Farm Lod Calculuione
ing or suche load calaiaio by rs optional metho. Fo oat ml be calcato i sence
ng on pace Mall ow amy 220.100 General. Farm oud ali le clued seo
permittedin Part 1 of ths article: however, the ampac of an Wi Fart
Mie tedio hal no be required 10 be larger Uan fhe 220.102 Farm Lows Bulag and Other Lond.
ampacty lo te entire Ir!
P: i {A} Dwelling Unit. The feeder or service load of a farm dull
This section shall not apply to portable classroom budidings. ing unit shall be calculated in accordance with the provisions.
rein Fart oC race. Where ng
has electro heat and he far has Ice rang Siem
i Fari Iv ol ii article shah not be ee to ru Tei
‘Table 220.86 Optional Meibog — Demand Factors Fo Feces 5
Dble220.80 Ops Method — i ana arri Se Sm ©
mmm poe cumin Other Than Dueling Oni Where a feeder or service
— Pei Demand CaculmraLouds supplica a fom bulding or other load having mo or more
Toul YA/m' Tow VA/I! Factor (%) VA) separate ranch circus, the load for feeder, sere conduc.
Tom 3 tm Amuuxiooa tor andere equipment hal be calcia in aconrdance
oem osi n mne mi demi do not lee wan indicato n Tale
Wan mens
Remainder — Remander Bane
meri mer FEE
0-00 [ET
Sommer NEPA Foren a use co NEPA Fre fess fr No! ra tin con cus rs
Eon os he pe Sore men 1 a RRS


--- PAGINA SUCCESSIVA ---

ARTICLE 220 — BRANCUCIRCUIT, FEEDER, AND SERVICE LOAD CALCULATIONS 220.120
Table 220.89 Optional Mero — Permined Load Calculations for Service and Feeder
‘Conductors for New Restaurants
ot Conaected A Electric Rermunoi Not AD Eleceic Resort
— avi Calesled Lonas GNA) Caleulamed Lora QUA
om 0% wos.
Poe WE amour 290) » 1600 30% (amo aver 200) +2000
sto 0% Gooner 823) 173 13% God over 82) +2625
Nec 30% Goi coer 00) + 410.0 20% Gramm mer #00) + 4763
Foe ATE eTe a al Tg Pol Bea Ig and ending Dal aie Die ol coped bod
Sek the one demand aon ht phi om etal en maki the od connected oan Di il
demand ato
220103 Farm Lows — Tonal, Where supplied by a common Table 220.102(B) Method for Calculating FarmE oads for
service, the total toad of the farm for service conductors and Otber Than Bweltig Unh
service equipment shail be caleulated in accordance wi he
‘arm dling unit load and demand factors specified in Table: Tensma Fedor
220108, Whete there is equipment in tn or more farm equip- Ampere Losd at 240 Volts Mario 0)
ment ilding or for losis having the same function, men oc om oa
Toads shall be caleulated in accordance with Table 720 IDI) The grener di he Inloming
and shall be permite 0 be combined as a single loa in Tabie AD Ioat sarc expec io operate 1
20303 for caleulating the total Toa mane, or
5 percent ofthe full nad curent oie
argo mace, or
Pan VI, Health Care Faves Fie amperes of reload .
Nea 0 amperes fal ore ads »
220.110 Recepiacie Loads. Receptacle Toads caleulated Remainder Al aber nek 5
accordance vith 220.1401 and (1) and supplied by ranch eB
circuits not exceeding 150 volts 10 ground shal be permitted 10
be cid 10 ME demand actos proved in Table Tible 220103 Method for Caleuiating Toa Farm Losd
2031003) and Table 220.1 IDC) for eal care facilities, _
fon atl Note No. L See Artie 199 fox the nition Enchichul Lona Calcvlate io Demand Factor
plenarie ke The din of Aion vi ae 20408 fc)
Cn mtbr Nene No. 2: Sec 220.140 for the cabobbon of Largest had w
smertadennei hab. Second ges ad. jd
hod rg nad @
Remaining loos 50
Ban VIL Marines, Boatyard, Posting Buildings, and Rote To Di cal bad, 2A he oo he Farr dling ani
‘Commercial and Noncommerial Docking Facies coke in cn bs lh Eat flo of ths ek Where he
220.0 Resepiale Lows Gene ging and cher outs IK Lk hand em ho ik nani
in marinas, boatards. Toating budding. and commercial and gambit shal abe ted calate the
noncommercial cocking faci shall be calculater in accord *
ance wih Part 1 of ths article and, in addition, the demand
factors set forth in Table 220.120 shal be permitted for cach Table 220.101) Demand Faciorsfor Recepractes Supplied by
serve or feeder circuit Muppiving Teceplaclcs that provide General Parpose Branch Cis in Category 1 and Gre gory
shore power for boats, These calevlatione Al be preter 102 Patiem Gare Spacer ite hid
be moi feds ndicated in Notes (1) and (2) of Table 22.120
Where demand factors of Table 220.120 are applied, hc parr
mand factor specie in 220.61) shall not be peri arias of Eecepace Lood ic
demand factor specified in 220.518) shal not be permed eras ered
ntl Note: Thee demand factor con be inadeqaate oirampere) Demand Facior 36)
re of creme how 0 CRA letpziale ahh pode pe me tS EEE
ti To beatin, fing on EEL cp First 8000 cr lesa po
als fon beating, droning. 9 rerigoatig cok Foon 5001 10 1.900 »
Remainder over 10900 5
rE ON EERO CODE 0-0
Copy NEPA Foren sue a NEPA Free Access por Nt foray Bom Sou cnc er gn
For tres contati ti SSE oRcr Toru” Tan ue Coat ESAS


--- PAGINA SUCCESSIVA ---

21 ARTICLE 28 — OUTSIDE BRANCH CIRCUS AND FEEDERS
‘Table 20.11002) Pemand Factor for RecepuckesSuppliedby Table 25,5 Otber Artices
General Purpose Branch Circuits inCategory Sand Category oo
4 Patten Gare Spaces — CPedpmwa/Conducrs acide
_— aa mn
Forte of Recepace Lod 10 Ga mimic cis amd Cl Lm E
Which Demand Facor Applica mica reamieconiiolana ening bn
Son Ampere Dereand Paci 6) Coan an Cane remote, Sno. n
and mci drs
fone o A Comin atest ig sie
Ronsimerowrtoow 50 ERA vgn i
piel
Table 220.120 Demand Factors for Shore Power Rece pce. Fleur dg nd tine lighng hod
Eons Bream ice Soa
—_—  Rtreuk dengan i
Number of Shore Power Sum ofihe Reig of he cig raionen
Recepucier Recepacies 80) Gein boning a
Theme Tae E
Le 100 Hamden clomid) locations — specif Eg
5 » Main ad was sm
po wo Nedra conor at sc sit
je LI Mevengeramporied ing ion
Ma @® Mobic home anche hoes and EA
nn [i nobil home parks
70 w Opening on asim wo»
Eh bi er bb vola general pa
RE i doa - ie
Where bore pests pride to cpt Crem rein for stent d
absent Ha ao Js, Bode
terol e 5. ove ape, (ul and one Sharer. EOE ten and bch dirai mer pi
25/25 only the eta mit ie lager don st demand Pre
hl be pe to be clr, Solar pinto volle mac. a
2 orcad povereipedoul being indaled tt cles an Simro oan 40d sini fen
india bho pein for cai slip ad beng cok bic intabsions
ing he er hard Tae 20.108. te mal man sores und enti of gov coors mo
“ul be tab i be mle by tr uie the od dem
Impero he ie. .
SF ocvesiitenina boathoisand oc pro orth eliza OT Tacewass, except Tipe MI cable, shall be of thermonet ar
Bel he lati te rr lam demand dial be thermoplastic ype and, in vet Incaion, shall comply with
oe ed Tn ie ld ce lion 101010). The iealstion of conduct for ese ighting
shall be of th sh monet or thermopiache pe.
eto Lauper ping contiion aud put diet
utucors sa br rng bro sound a pr el nt
ARTICLE 225 dot mh oe
Outside Branch Circuits and Feeders 255 Conductor Sie and Support
(A) Overbead Spans. Open individial conductors shall not be
Pan E, General smaller than 10 AWG copper or A AVG aluminium for spara up
85.1 Scope. This arde covers requirements for outside ln 18m GO) intengihand A MSC copper or AWG alum
branch crests and ocr net mer 1000 ws acor 1500 volis  MMEOT a longer span es supported by a mesenger ire
de, nomina, nun om ar bees WS, TRIES, or pole (B) Festoon Lighting. Overhead conductors for fein Tht
Fesioon cerca conductors for fesinon ghi
dhe premises; and electrical equipment and wiring for the {ng shall not emai tha 1 AW nies the conduetorsare
pods peasy equipment that A es SE GND bi i
the ouside nf buildings, sruetres, or pcs 010), the conductors shall be supported by messenger wire.
Uformalbona Note: Sec Pari IY of ice 20 for moe The messenger wire shall be supporter by strain fists
Branch cots fer ov 068 mile or (500 Conducinrs or messenger vires shai note a tmched in any fre
escape dem pont, or Piumbing equipment
£255 Other Artes. Application af other articles, including pe. dnp. or plumbing equipe
additional requirements io specific aes of equipment and 225.10 Wiring on Buildings (or Ovber Structure. The insal
ones, is shew in Table 2253 ation of rte wiring on surfaces ef balding de other Sic.
tres) shall be permitter or rats not exceeding 1000 volts
225.4 Conductor rsulaion. Where within 30m (108) ofany Romina ae peeing di
bulding ar srucnire other tha Supping pax or Imera
opeinindiodual aera overheadconduciori shall be ruses, (1) Adar gers
for the nominal voltage. The dation of conductors incales £8) Bums
0-10 NAVONA ELECTRA CODE Db
Copri NEPA or arse a NEPA Free Access pron No! or GB 10% Sou cnc er gn
For tires Gort: SSE oncr “o (oro UT an 5 use COTE ESAS


--- PAGINA SUCCESSIVA ---

ARTICLE 228 — OUTSIDE BRANCH CIRCUITS AND FERDERS ms
e» Game ve (A) Strength The mai ha have suai singh or be
@ Coens oppor by braces ee gus wires in aio tsa sr
©) Yicctrical metal vubing CENT) imac by the ee fr nr ran ru oT
& ome mean cs tane eit for te 3 cond Serving mR Bo
©) meres me coda GE) er Sesh on branch ro comers em
&) Ligh ii metal nd (LEM fraps
©) igi Neghie meta cavi GEN) ee amor rane conduciore
Un Openstringon ima Sali oe he Ti x st he dhe oration È
li ear, between a weatherhear or the end of the conduit and a
5) Not mo com oH THO Crupiing sere he pling eae abo the las print ef
5 Kg met co CRM
00) RE rid chi comi VC) Cement in the Bing 7 er Star, or when the
Ga Roche upg rai ove the gn ihr Ste
48) Toe Mice 22518 Ciearanoe for Overben Comductorsand Cables. Over
Gn Teme best pane of po eos an pen Tendon
U8) Type TORR cable Cables of not mer 1900 sls, rein. shall have a clearance af
Us) Tepe UF cable net less than the following:
0 Wireways i) 50m (108) — shove finished grade, sxiclks, or from
215.1 Feeder and Branch iru Condoctors Eri, Exit. ay pati or man Har ali pe personal
ng ox oct to Budding: or Sachs Fouts and ernia where he ls os exo 15 in
chris conduct ching oxing ing. or gru an eerie mopar o
richie shall be ale In accordance ih 24082 Our. (2) 83m (LZ R) emer residental propery and driers,
heat branch cies art feeder attached mings or spec: an there commen es ne UDC in Tk a
tres a be eo ten aes srth 290 34 er Sh det io estere SO mm
e» SES or ine areas Inlet in the SA 0 9
225.12 Open-Condurtor Supports. Open conductor shall be clasification where the voltage exceeds 00 wits tn
poi on Jovi a. Facts, a es ai casi
awe made of gass, porcetain, or ether approved materak. i 35m (18 fi — over pubic streets, alles, roads, parking
295.14 Open onder Spgs Conus sal copy ages ck lb gs en mr
Sh ie patina pier veri Ct er dental prope: and othr lan Taser by Ee
cing proce in Tae 2101 (CI deal proper and ther ad meme
(A) Separasonfrom Other Cru, Open conduciorsshall be (5 35m (8A is ok ard ries
EE Cram nf nile chews semi
netics than 160 mm {4 in). 22519 Clearances from Buildings for Conduaors of Not over
1000 Yom, Nomina Overhead Spara nf oper coneirs and
®) Contactors on Pale. Conductor en pos hall have a open miicondutos cabs hall avis 2251500: (0,
Separation sé oi lesi ati 300 mim (1) selere not placerton ES RO),
Tati or beate. Coir supported i pres shall rete
Chime hg To Han ine felini (A Above Root. Orerhead spare of open conducts and
pen maior cams sha hate vee cance nf
(1) Peer cond. below communications Sonus — Cles ihanz £0) above heed ace, The Sere
30mm Cin. cal Garin hove the vd desti shall De manne, Sv 2
(2) Power conductors alone er above commiunicatione distance not less than 900 mm {% ft) in all directions from the
pri deme nies
a. MO wisorles — om 2431)
3 po mimerlen — tom 24 n Espen No. 1: Te cea tons sfc 15 to eto or
©) Communications conduciors below power conductor, — ACY afc shall he a venical draranc io the of fot in
Mcoviante th mans wiser 35.18.
Same di pr on:
9) Communication emdudiery alone — no requirement Epon So. 2 Wh th ela: te ctor dari nat ed
. 50 avd oof eof Hi om in SOM GE ein 3)
225.15 Supporis over Buiding. Outside branchereuìt and
feeder comuctars passing mer a building shall be securely OBE a wduction in clearance to 900 mdf) shall be pried.
supported. Eveptioa No. 3: Wher th voltage trun condurtors dos not excent
mem vo Bal Ga icin in imme sy oy Te nko oto iv
225.16 Ar ings. Joo 10 not dess than 430 mm (18 in) stat be per mita 4 (1) mo! moe
8 Palm of Aches. The pot of attachment io a build Zam 18 m (6/0 gi it contr, 12 4 1 ml. Pe
Sg shall naomi Bro. Si tin mf od 55 an nA al a Pog
{B) Means of Anachmem. The means of attachment to a 9% rover orappiovel upon.
Ding shall be sconce sal 28027. Exoption So. 4: Tav quire for matt ain th ical cho
rem 37 om hi ff ct a ep
22507 Mare ae Supponi Only sceder on ranch foe on 0 ly of he of dl nt cps oe fa
cnnductors speciticd wih this section shall be permite in Gue 144 BATES cont doth str of bull
be attached tn the feeder and for ranchecircuit mast. Masts. i
Medio Sapper of lin Spr fers ov rah cialis (8) From Nosbuliding or Nosbedge Sracares. From signo,
Sal blo ti accordance with 21700 and (87 Simon vata and evito anennat, GNA an niet
[EN — 10108
Conon NEPA Fore ue use or NEPA Free Access lat‘ Not rat fo cou cao ar ning
Eons os he pe Sore mE 1 a SRR


--- PAGINA SUCCESSIVA ---

i AKTICLE 22) — OUTSIDE BRANCH CIRGUTS AND FEEDERS
nonbulting or nonbridge suucues, charances — vertical 225.28 Wegmuion ae Soppon, Vegeuation such as vos shali
agora, ani horizontal — shall no he (ext ian Si mm ore Leti for support al er co span
(si 527 Raceway Seal, Where a raceway enters a bulding or
(©) Horisonial irre, Charnes shall not be less than sode Farm ole oh be SIG In acer, Sala
som iO Sani) an NT) Spare or ed ev hall abo be
Jc eae ema ot wh ae on
4D) Final Spans. Final pans of focdersor branch cicuits shall Conductor insulazion, bare conductor, shield, or other orm
Cap Ma ea DI pe
4) Crane from Widows, Pn pan to the ing thes
pao fem sich they are fed, anh De pred be - .
a eng yh be evs ky Par. rltingor Other Scare Sophie by Feces
Sm (3 10 fo on thai 1 to De op or Branca Cress
fm or porches, Fao. Isher, ars fre estapesi 225,80 Number of Supplies. A bialg or other ruc that
i sere by a branch Src o si an th load side of 3
apro: ontuson run aber the top be of a ies shld Service Gieconsenting means Shall Be pol by an one
er ans 8 thn Fuet ar branch Birgit unlese pole. n ED SALA
i rg AE), For the pups Ol Ue Segno, è mali
2) Vertical Clearance. The scrtical clearance of final spare branch circuit shall be considered a single circu
Sone or iby Di im, 3 casa Wel of pt
forms, projections, or surfaces that will permit personal contact Where a branch circu oc feeder originates in these addi
feral tion Ring ox Amnon ine ier or branch
ST ret shall be permed opp parer back to the original
(5) Buiing Opening The mba branche and ior” ure, MEO Poni BAR
Roer comunore 5h not be Ad beneaih apn Legs 0)
iru kh materiale may bc mont. suc ao peg Te ©
farm avi commerci buldge, ah hr De died (paca Coin ion cds or branch ches
where they abst 1 entrance to these Openings. shall be permitted to supply the following:
(8) Zone for Fire Ladders Where buikings exceed three (1) Fire pumps
orator 18 0 Th hig, or bo shall he © Emerge ee
ranged, where practicable, so that a clear spar (or zone) at 3) Legally required standby systems
{cast 14 {6 i) nde wl be left ciher acento the bu (1) Optional any estere
are to To 0 dar em ihre) ERRORS i eso
ie go she ee or fire ang roms deed or ost to mp
9250 Proacion agus Pbk Damage, Conductors 7) ISAT chk ponti Fa rao Fa abled and
reals on Dade usar, or pols al he pretesa Wich for more ha Ale ranch crc Fs
against physical damage ae roma of ree bn SAR ® Docking abner ant pre
925.9 Muticonduaor Cais on Exterior Sas of Bik. (8) Common Sopply Equipment. Wire (slr conduciors
ings (or Other Siroctuzes). Supports fof mulicondactor canbe orate in the Sw: panclboard, lchboard, ar other distri
oF cori Sac of PO fr os Sr ol be on eqdpmere, ar Sach CT hal in a Sigle
i prosiiedinzioDi ecm Meine not more than de eng hall he
i i Pore Whe tore Gan one tester È Ia Sort
225.22 Raceways on Exterior Surfaces of Buildings or Other Fp this section, all feeder disconnects supplving the
Stroctures, Racewass on exteriors ol biiklings or ather sini. buikling or structure shall be grouped in the same location,
Saree shall be aang to rain a mali be Vel ar approned NE le qu in the a bcs
pures sha be arrang qu e coni een DE HT MA dota Ech con
Bea halo rahe roe oa tratt
e atatte e pendant onion he Srv, pane prea) permit, nd
Hale EC er A SAT ident branch Ce sl e pried for ser te
type that pundure the meulation and make contact with the ng:
conductors, they shall be attached only to conductors of the ow Subipleccupancy buildings Bisa no space
ple Seals or ro cap ecole sores
i @ A ingl: building or other snuctire sullicioni large to
2525 Locuton of Owdoor Lamps. Loans of amps or eon more ups ees
Sutor ging shall de belmrall voglie er a hoor
Formers, ar other elortric wilizaion equipment, nies. either {DA Capacity Requirements. Additional feeders or branch
fre ep frese mal be Ee ers he pas roe
J nT—————— EEE a ppi; solage ol 1000 soli or
@ Bate conrole by a disconneating means htc (E) Diferem Corea. Adora! olers or branch
RASA Pe al pec fr Won kag, omnes,
or pha ar or Teco is such roo ls Bh
nto ie location
0-im [—,
By —
Sree rr me a om eas


--- PAGINA SUCCESSIVA ---

ARTICLE #5 OUTSIDE BRANCH CIRCUITS AND FEEDERS asso
© Docamenea Sviting Procure. Adelina! oder or (8) Aditional Disconnectiag Mean. The one ar mere addi
ran Creat shall be pene up installation under toni disconnecdng mes re pA or for ere
single management where Arcam sile switching proce. legal required ise pion) stadi wer pente
tes are esibiished'and maintained. EP by 225 Shall be ished sufficienti emme Fm the one in

Ma Sx dcmnnectng means Sor nota Supp 10 minime he
225.51 Disconnecting Means. possibility af simillianenis interniprinn of pp
A) Conan. Mea shal be provin Sor disconnecting Il 295.85 eres 10 Oerapams. In a matin ie
85 Access 10 + In a mukiple.oceupancy i
reminded nicer that supply or pass through the build: ing uch rcpt sll ave sec to the cepts ppl
nein ean
(©) Location. The dicomnecing mean shall be inal 5oupaon: Di a mulipicupeney bub one ti sey and
her or ui of he Dg Ss er or So 1 0 mlplcapor bt wav dec oth ad
here the conductors pas through the bulding or STUGTe. Lo unde commas Siding management sb vison
To isconeing mesi <a be at a Teal sce oT, 5 mona pe
Ti eae he pini Ee of Ihe conduc. For he HIF dmg mots sng mor on ou srs
purposes nf this section, the requirements in 2406 shall apply e agent perio!
tergo No. 1: br intaltationi under single marge, WME 225.8 Type of Disconnecting Means. The disconnecting
documented safe behing pocaturei we sildisied and mainiained, nl ic in 22541 shal be a circuit breaker, melded
rd aor rena de roo tod nd, fu as pected n 2231 hal be 3 cr beer, molded
diving means shall be prised 10 de located essere on the means. Where applied in accordance with 250.42{8) (1),
rie. Seti So 11h connecing mea shal be ae ov
Exton No. 2: Fr iting or thr cts qualiping under 5 Se Serie pon
SoS meting mean So de pried be lord eta 22531 Laemibicazioni Where a bue hi
sifiouion Where a ilding or structure has any
er anh peri combination of feeder. branch hci. nr emer pang
Corpi No. 3: or tsar on poles wet a ging tmnt, Ugh il nr SUppYIg in 2 permanenti plaque or direct
pn 30.3 be en pl we ho svt tr DE ppg È a pins pe iy
Fria resto teaming all ier service feeders sr ranch creas
upping that billing nr Socio or passing weigh that
drepion Ko. por pole or similar Situs don for support Dosing potato area seven Br cach E
Cent ait in eit with 600 1. ine ering mont
aside wd at on pei Exton So. 15 A loge a dirctors shall not be eqn for rg
N > pts Sug il aston: under Ange my
12553 Maximum Nenberof Disconnects. i aod st ditomaction nb amped,
(A) General. The disconnecting means or cach supply | ‘StaNishing and maintaining soe aottching prrcatures
permet Di 223 30 hat ons fo ere ho PCR. Bacon. : Tis reaton ll nor Gr ind for rch
pr sin ree Meeker mounted in 2 single Socom, in 5 eae ogo do ten bono a
gup Di sare cman nr In or ot a heard en -
Switchgrar, There shall be no moce than six diconneets per 25:38 Disconnect Constmction. Dixennceting means shall
pit gmupedin din one Incatoni sec the requirement nf 55 SSA) ough 0)
Exreption: For the purposes of This section, disconaecting means usi (A) Manually or Power Operable. The diconnccting means
ra om so he metal pete me or vy Shall consist of either (1) a manially operaie Ssh or a
Som co] 1 pret A dicomer ng ns, CH aber equipped wih a handie or ier sable oper:
Tota a par of ite rete! ch woe come d d Slng ment 07 (2) a poveraperabie snitch ev CHER, Irae,
El an Bored fat
(B) Single-Pake Units. Tun or three singieprie swiiches or the event ofa power faure.
meskes capa of indivi opera ion sali penned on (8) Simulianeon Opening of Pole, Each bulding or suc
mec ei mp Sen re eg Ae anny diari
die dheetec, proce. He are capperi wih Ungruvied Sippy conductor that cls rn the ld:
end Tandle cs or a master hate to fine al Ng or Sucre wing Ser
Ee cor wi ere on six To (Gy Dimonnention of rome Gondor, Wher he bull.
the han ing or struchure discon necting mean dines hot disconnect the
125.54 Groupiog of Dinconnerta. wien ratios Tom he gmaden, coir dn he
fd Fuding or smuchure wiring, ether mean shal be proved St
(45 General. The tm in six diseonnectsaspermitod in223 85 iii ep ak he Pale ok the coma ek
Se be grmipot. Each isconnoct sil be mario tivo alll gb E Ripa
Ire nari Serveri Sime De means of prewar omecons Sal be perito
Esrption: Our of he tuo 10 six disconmeeting means pomited i 37 this purpose.
223.39, wher avd ony for a water pump also tend i provide or In a multisection switehbrard or sviichgear, disconnects for
provetion, shall be pe ite 0 br tor att remote fom the ofr discon: the grounded conductor shall be permitied to be in any section
Peng means oo escent sien can art
des tion NONA ELEOMINAL CODE 108
Copa NEPA Foren use io NEPA Fre fess fr No! ra tin cou cur rng
a rE en,


--- PAGINA SUCCESSIVA ---

2238 ARTICLE 210 — SERVICES
sicher section marked in indicate grounded conducior (© Macking The disconnecting mea shall be marke a5
comme scone 1 the equipment EMERGENCY DISCONNECT
© Indicating. The ung or smite disonnecbng Markings shall compl wih 110.218) and all of the Solis
mans wal piainy indicate whether iti in he pon Sse ng i
position, (0) The marking or abet shall be ated on the outside
115.59 Rating of Disconneck The feeder or branch Tro of he connec endesure wih red Pkg
samen meas Sal have a rating of net 10x han he pi
cued os in be apple. deeming in accordance ith (2) The eters shall be least Lymm 04 in) high.
Faris 1 an Il Ale 280 do branch cits, Fart Mew IV of Sarge omarion
Article 220 fer feeders, or Part V of Article 220 for farm Inads. 25.02
Where the. branch cir or feeder disconnecting means (A) Sarge Pesce Device, Where a ec supplies aw of
Conk of mere than one sich er Gr Breaker, 5 perish foliming 2 Surge prective device PD) Sl be int}
ted by AS, cmbining the rating: of all the smiches or lod "8 2 Mtge pre
Gris breakers for dcierivining the rating AF the diconnect (1) Dvelling uni
ng meno sha be permet In no ue shall ine range DAS
Ie an pected In S253 SAY. (8), (0. or 0) Ty Ut es ses of cs and ols
(A) One Circuit Installation For insiallation: in suppl only 91 Areas of nursing homes and limiicd.care facile wed
limited ads of a single branch circuit, the Franch circuit ‘exclusively as patientslec ing rooms
diconnecting means shall have 3 Tang of net les han (By Location, The SPD shall be led in or adiacent io he
amperes. rT equipment tha is Gone in he oe side nf he
{BY Two Circus Tostallaions. For installations consisting of feeder and conins branch rau mercument protective
not more than two Zire branch circuits, the feeder or branch- device(s) that supply the location specified in 224% A).
reat disconnecting means shall have a rating of not less than foro Note: Suge protectin is tot effete hen
ampere. docs to dhe ban ak. Boe a operant en
(© On Py Detling. For 3 vcs deci, the MRI antico omit. ae Ta ie
feeder dnconecting means shall Pax a rating of notlesi than “Fie ky or wills equipment
00 amperes, Suir «© Type. The SPD shall bea Type 1 or Tipe 2 SPD.
(Dì AL Others. For al other installation, the feeder or (D) Replscemen Where che disibution equipment supplied
Dri CIT dscmnecting means shall ave a Tang of not By the dein isreplacod all ofthe requirement nf scion
dex tima fo amperes. sa appis
225.40 Access 10 Overcurrem Protective Devices Where a (E) Ratings. SPUs shall have a nomina discharge current
Tooter mercument devio 13 for TORRY accesibie, Wanch. rating (1 nf note than KA
reas, mercurrent devites shall be installed nn the ira side, i
Shall be mini in a TAT accessi Toca, anda be formalina Nole: Lord longi of sods ta he SPD
Ha lower ampere rating than the ieeder onereurmentde vice. Venti de ere © stori an pombe reduce ehh
225.81 Emergency Disconnecis. For anca nd tio By well
ing units, an Emergency diseonnecding means hall be sale,
cas Groen.
tl} Location. The disconnecting means shall be tale in a ARTICLE 250
ready SECA outer eae. on er within sight nf The :
ng uni sh Services
@ Rating. The disconnecting means shal has a short circuit
nt Sing equal i or greater than te available fui Pari E General
arent 230.1 Scope, This article comers service conductors and equip-
8) Grouping. moe han one disonnnecting means is provi. ment er on and proiselian of services not rer 1000 woe
“ed. ey be pen SPO mw. 150% wh de, nomina] and tet sas. require:
®) aemification of Other Isolation Disconnects Where MO
equipment on lain of mer energy smi Ses st BE one |e onan Note ir 258.
Cad sce lo the Emergency dacmnnect egireri by MS mtd Note Ny. 2:5 Br Notari 28 far eric
settion, a piague or direc idenifang the locaton of all ner MG UN Bn ia di nomini
Eta demic. Sane required in his 2902 Number of Series A ding or her src
eam Servedshal be supplica by en one service nis perme in
i sin, 100.5 20520, md Son SRA) thug (0). Fr the purpose of 28040, Exception
mal Koi Sc 4451, 1907 020, and oor Be 0) (PUR (0) For the purprse of FIG beep
cramps other che wns sa dem bollo means larger, running tn the same location and connected together at
10106 J CODE res Esion
Copri NEPA For ext uve 150 NEPA Free Access attori Not dr ai 40% our GHG Gr Gn
Far aurea Coo Ace Tare a1 TE Corali SAS


--- PAGINA SUCCESSIVA ---

ARTICLE 210 — SERVICES 208
a ii (8) Were the load coquisemenis of a single phase installa
Seater conto [= bon are greater han the serving Sgr normaly
aes Gna f= ppl ough one oie
EN a 5 specal permission
Sens Came ngewe Part (Di Differem Characeristics. Additonal services shall be
Serve Equpment_Overent Pata permiticd for different voltages, frequencies, or phases, or for
PN Veron use such as for Arent rate Sl,
(E Identification. Where a building of structure is supplied
Finora) Uraegora by more than onc scrice, oc any combination of branch
poe clecuits, feeders, and services, a permanent phe or dircatory
Shall be stall at cach serve disconnec! headin denoun
OR cre gd PR A other services estero, and branch circuit suppleing thar
JO ee oe and de asca cercai cachi Se D287
as 290.3 One Building or Other Suracare Not 10 Be Sopplied
Through Another. Service conduces suppbing a building of
Servca menti Teoma er Soe Ball wk pos homagh ti tei of ames
fot Ping or othe structure
£305 Conductor Congidered Ouside th Building, Coro:
or shal be Soaked outside of a PIA OF URE sinicture
fE— Pa under any the following conditions
i 11) Where install under not lese than 30 mm (2 ind of
concrete hencath a bing or thet tute
epmeni—genend Pant 2) Where installed within a bidding or other structure in a
Goran materano Ance 350 cay that coca In concrete or brick not ess than
. i Bhan Rin) thick
Se Fat Where aad in any sank tha mcs the conszstion
tequeementsof Fact LL of Article 450
ore sqrt aw (41 Whe installed in conduit and under not less than
wR pon 450 mm (IA in) of earth bencath a budding or other
—— sceso. Pes 9) Where installed within did metal conduit (RUC) or
Feeders. Aces 215.225 intermediate metal conduit (MC) used to accommedate
ie clearance roquicoments in 24024 and covo directly
ibreugh an cave but nota alo Bag
Informations Note Figure 230.1 Services. 290.1 Other Conductor. Cicuit conductors ber than sc
ice conductors. shab not be insaled in te same cacca
their supply end but not connecrd together at the had end Cable, ha ndhole enclosure, or underground box asthe service
shall be considered to be supplying one service. conductors.
roma Esption So. 1: Grouting dod ontetors ost side bona
A Special Conditions. Addionat services shall be permetod No 1: Grou courte
A) Sprit Condison. ng pon de coctrs shal eid ihn ree anger.
Fire pumps Esption Sa. 2: Lond manageneni control condaciors Mauing nere
(2) Emergency mone Ve scion shal pond st rito vk
(3) Logally coquired standby systems 290.8 Raceway Seal. Where a service raccway enters a building
(4) Cphonaltandby stes ve structure. ii shall be sealed In accordano ih 400 HC) and
(8) intcrcomecied electric power production sources TRA) Spare gr um ceva shall abo be sea) Suk
(6) Simos designed for connection to muliple sources of ans shall "Pe dentino for ea ih ie able olan
suppl foc the purpose of enhanced celiabilier conductor insulation, bare conductor shield, or other compo.
® Special Occupancies. 8 special peemesion, additonal Ne
services shall be peemticd for ies af the olen: 2909 Clearances on Bailing. Service condueiors and nal
(1) Mulipleoccupaney buildings where there is no available spans shalicomply th 240914), (8), and €.
space on sere equipment accesible 10 alloccupants es pot ae
(2) A single building or ther sinucture sutticionty large to fon, oF matita co cin eek ons bet
make ten or more services necessary shall have a clearance of not ss than 900 mmm £3 (4 from
(CY Capacity Requisements. Additional services shall be widows hat xe designed to be open doors, porches, bale
period under aky of he folloring Fo. does mais, fe escape, ac Ami locaton
(0) Where the capac roquitements are in eacoss of Esrpion Condaciore run cou th top kel of a wus sh br
2000 amperes at a mupply lage of 1000 vol o less omit 10 be est han i S01) mgs.
Sn ALA ELECTRA CODE ren
Coat NEPA For ent ve a or NEPA Free Aes psn No! fr ai Eno" ou Gian cranny
Far aa ono ae vietare To mp APS use coma ORE


--- PAGINA SUCCESSIVA ---

a mes io —sEKVICES
(i Vertici Qearance, The vertical clearance ol final spans  condurtor ian gir (he unvice dRp cr urlo sere condito
bose, of vibin 901 ram (3 1) measured ho Boal ol pt wt tie sile ofa RABE
fore. peti ae ruttacas tht vali pera pron contati
tore. projectione, or ace that wl pe Extn No. 3: Wh th lar bom ocr dans na vd
halt be maintained in accordance wih 2802406) 300 and ite of av 5 go od, milion Sl
© Biting Openings. Ovechea service conductors shall ot 10309 wa Ot prenderai
Ere pe ed REY rst Grant fr Stet serie Gre
mastall ot be ol nere he ar eran oh ONT service codons, ihre ot Gc of 1001 volta,
gto bei ial, hl have dh tolo nian Saran hor
final grate
280.40 Negation ae Supponi, Vegciatian rach ar ere thal (13 SA m 101) — at the electrical sve entrance to build.
not be uo apport of methead sey cour sere ingr alto ate bcs pom Gi dhe de loop on ie ball
i coupes [rprebptl glen hog due tend
Ei ls poke, mar ro final grade
5 dr olbi accom suttace on dor aretha serie
Parti. Overbend Service Conduciore Cmducor rupposicd on and aka togeiher mi a
250.12 Inmuintion or Covering, Individual conduc shall be oun bare messenger where he vollage docs not
[resp i mi ro
@ 7m By ou evden property and dcr,
Expo: Tar grande conductor of a maliconduaoy able hl be a those commercial ars Mmi ee Toth malte
priv tot die pa)
i e) T5051 er bos ac hi In the 3 Am (12 0
230.28 Sine and Ampecita scan where The volage cute 300 sos 16
ci General. Conaciors shall base suflicicni anpacty to gros
Co the current fn ah ae caleulated in accoglante with (1) 55m (INR) over public sat, ley, roads, packing
Fir I tagh ¥ of Ais 2 and al ave adeguate aa kee to truck bal. denen ant dan tesi
preci hd Seiad prope and abe land toc cola gr
i ng on rac
®) Minimum Sine. The conduction. shall not be male any DE erecta alone
AR a PAU Sao ppd Bar i
(© Ciearnce from Buting Openings Crarancos trom
Epon: Contac ppg oy limitrd ts of ngs rane {O lenrane from, iki Opens
Clr met sak os pr oid i a and SHAE opening: shall comp th 305)
a — sta moi 00 tb hn 13 AMT: ands copper (DY Clearance from Suni Pools, Founiaina and Similar
plo lls. Clearances from mig pont Sanat art
oe Contariore The ound cadet sal Sar lao Tm wd WS
oe es ha minima 5 pated yo 24D (E) Glare from Commonication Wier and Cable, Clear.
25024 Ciearaners, Ovetbead service socio shall not be 205 1 Communiaton ics and cabs shall be in aco
Cea accosted shall compl mt 250 2468) through (E)
frestrspetonsrisuiiadin 250.16 Poim of Anachment. Th point ot attachment of the
rhea serie: onan 10 a Puig o sib Smtr
<A) above Roofs. Conductocsshallhasca vertical learanoo of gree Ios to a bulding 0 al suc
rr er EE Ce AT
ie md the too! el shell ein tors ZZ In ca hall th pont of atachrcnt be loss than
hance of notes than 500 mr (3) in all sions orn oie
ite age ot cool. 230.27 beans of Antachument. Mudtionnducto: cables urca tor
ha rt conti actor ball be acd 19 bangs E
Exreption No. 1: The area abou a oo soc subir to estan or LCA EEE by fittings identica for use ee
iu fe ali dany sod TO De of sort in mondadori. Opa Cot sha be attached gs dere
aie tht clare owen 4 210 242) Tr eh Toe somdutiori oto Maney
Caption No, 2 he the lar wer ovtctors ot cd Dror Wao eth ach to he bulding oF
50 and he of pe of Hy 300 Em a dd 19100 SHB Eu
ea a eon cnc 00 n (37 li Rd 930.8 Service Mame se Suppor, Only power senfecdiop oc
Corpo No. ho the sar res condartor dt rd eens vice conducono shall be perriticd to be tad
toi nes by op oooh pron vs 123 Soke mast Seti: cs wo he support of sic
ent ra tan 50 13. lb et (1 re Stop 0 Chal server conduzione ak De MARA m
Ss of serata contava, 12m (41 sora. accordance lh ERR and (5)
dato, pari het de mf oon, and 31 a eed 84 Sira Tot ete soot ali be 01 adeguate seni
kde Sg. The proce mai dali be ol adeguate querela
JAA trai imporca by he sci ckap x head sevice conc
oat pate To une wi ott srs a feno
Exmpion No. 4: Tar mpmens for minting he wil coo a man ali be Bevo Tor re vit eer
ont Sm 31 om he ir of shld guy to the pani coppi
Toon SanoNaLELGINICAL CODE saro
Conon NEPA Fore ei or NEPA Free centr Not br rst buon cou cao ar is
Eon os he pe Sore men 1 a RRS


--- PAGINA SUCCESSIVA ---

men services ant
2 chm, sero or otha see cs 1G Gro Gone: To ended contac sali
ee Ee oro
pin Si a been 2 eae
ra Sgt eo ana Supls SECO 0300 pon Agia Damage, Underground see
other szuetaee o è located above the buldingor ober azo. distor shall be protected again damage i accordance
otte TE egos oh
ea ue 3 AS oe het
29015 Support ovr Bling Seis concn passing oH eA EA, HAL
TALES APE NI TE 503 sey Gmc ere coo be
oN Pg de alvaanila lie Cd oy crm sere Tin
ERE ERE EAR RNR
EE ean ie
building. Pan FY. Service Entrance Condurians
i 25030 Number of Serer Conor Sew, Exh
Pan HI, Underground Service Conductors scrvice drop, set of overhead service conductor, set of under
250.30 i ‘one sctof service-entrance conductors.
Comes: Undergo seis conduct be inse
) tominion gr rion So 1 A bing st mom can one ups hl se
lato ine apple i en kane rt ek
copione A got nds i prt bsnl rs one pn et
Pont GR Been mon OOo csi aoa
ea ar PGE
421 Baw copper for det trial whem bam coppor is approved for the 40h location, f the mane of servis discomeet dorations med
Bar copper for pivot for Soap gioca mi tention. he font ros zioni all
31 aw coppe for dine buvial without regan to soit conditions PIE
a ta dott ty tot tre po ali py ht
14) Aluminum or copperciod akiminam without idividua! insula. ogpther ith any branch cit o ford upp sures, shall oe
freA Se aryl Sree avd ad
re oo jody
8) Wing Mebods. Unaeegionnd service conductors shay 12) 15 JO ull dr aed nn approntati ete
Be incall in accordance wih the applicable cenuiement of a amt or mts on
the Cat con i ting sit used and cali be Pas EIA EA
dl mg em gn rg it
© Bon PN to si snste divani menns in opa.
| ot ee 0
Tele nar a rn, ah put
© hom Viigo Fk Kina foe kn
pene nm lol rr
or frisbee
[te — on So. one Jemi dng nt at nara
TE ESPONE bo ac ba SEP 2 nfs dg kt and dn sm, a
applications e to cach fron a gle service 0p 591 f OHO Srvc fondi.
(im Te whe slab pect sg psc he of sonar ama
ps lab bes tye
hy mE ene rcs Eon No, 4 Tf do, wont dig, mne
ee and direct burial applications multiple occupancy tuildings shall be perwitie to hase one sel of
et Fr pe oi
25030 Soe and mpc, rs :
(N General, Uniergrouma service omic hl il Exo So 50 to mots oso omens
Sonampario inca de censito de Ion are Gl he Ke ct eter oid
accordance with Parts [through V of Article 220. 0 supply cach on sent sions covery 230.83) or 240 82061.
(5 Mimun Siae. The concn lors cna an 15008 tate, of Soc ome Contain, Sk
# AWG copper 6 AWE: aluminum or copperclad aluminitm.  cnirance conductors entering or on the exterior of buildings
FRNA rise TOS
et oneal Sra A goal tr sl prin iid
pmsl ass mir A Papi
tum or copper<tad aluminum. £1) Baw copper ed in a rocnuay or part of a senics cate sembly


--- PAGINA SUCCESSIVA ---

wos ARTICLE 230 — SERVICES
(23 Bow copper jor dima bil wie bam cop pond forthe 017) Aula gues
sof conditions (11) igi pti! chioride conduit (FV)
03 Baw copper fo di busial with vd to i conditioni (12) Cankbus
re part of ile amy dred for and pound ue (15) Tope MC cable
(1) Mamimim or copper od aliminam ith nl sta. (19). Mimcrabinsulaod, mots sheathed cable spe MI
ton or coming ne par of a cable assenti or taunt for (15) Fexibie metal conduit (FMC) not over LA m (8 ft) lor
goad vir {na rr, ofa die or or liquidtight Aexible metal conduit (LFSC) nor nck
(51 Bae cottons un nan cian ger Vm (8 5 long berwoen a raceway, of beeen. race.
Coin Si way and service equipment, wih a apple bor
230.82 Minimi Sie and Ampacity, Nimes couted with he flexible metal con dult (FAC) of
(A) General Servicecniranee conducnes shall have an the lquidtight ilexible metal conduit (LEVI) according
ampacity of not less than the maximum load to be served 5) 19 ZINA) (8) (C3 and (E)
Conductor shall be site not kss than the largest of 219 BA) (16) Liquidight ible nonmetaltic conduit (LANG)
07 ANZI. Lock shall be determined in accordance wth 17) Ilighdensity polietintene conduit ILDPE)
Fart lL (Voc V of Article 220. as applicable Ampacity shall be (1) Nonmetallic underground conduit with conductors
torre from S114 and shall orp. with 111(C). The UCC)
rms current of buna hal be fat value for which the (19) Reinforced thenoscting resin cond (RTRC)
Dames has been tod or labeler (20) Type TCER cable where deni for use as service
chitance condor:
mat ot Ser CL 851, red fo Safe or Ber, (21) Flexible bis ems
15 Cont menage Lows, there the sere, 280,48 Cable Taps. Cable ua sistemo shall be permite to
entrante Conlon Supply continuous meio any combine. PET! Senay conductora Cab ws ied to
Entrano conductors supply continuous esc oc an combine Support wre enance conductor shall conta only seve.
on wins ba, UT nance conducioni and shall be ric 10 the folowing
serviceentrance conductor size shall fe an ampacitynotless Sars
{han the sum of he nonco imo kad pL 125 percent of
conto oad. 0) Tope SE cable
€) Tope Michie
Ecoption No. 1: Gundod consurtone dx ae vot comated an (5 Tyo bE cable
nro vie hal te pnd to be ded af 00 poet of fr (1) Tape (GS cable
ami] he contin an wer od (3) Single conductor 1/0 and larger that are tod for ez in
sieprion No 2: Th sum of the noncontianous oad and che cot sab a
El) de svi mean contado er a9) Te TO ER cable
vice shen both di ovata dros and its nt or lisat jor such cable rays shall be denied wii per manenily afte)
ptm at 10 ext] thi ting shot be prin labels wih the wexding “Sees Entxanes Conductors” The
2 Application of Adjustment or Correction Factors The labels shall be located so as to be wsblc after installation vith a
esc soul bare amp, Pacing notto excced 3 m (IN {O so that the serie entrance
te oa or, ones are able to be reali ware rough ie entire
cation of any adisnentor correction tor Keng of the cable way.
(B Specific Instaliationa. In addition 10 the requirements of | XP: Conductor, oer thon servire entrano cours shall br
LI AMA), the minimum ampacky for ungrounded conductors APP 0 de nad in a cole 1 with write cont
for spec malo sl nt bee Sa the ag of to 7d ea fdr ed or wath fae
eR dren ews seein BOAR) fog 1 lt sh, 4
250.46 Spliced and Tapped Comdorior Servic antzanc
16) Grounded Gonducrors, The grounded conductor shall pre:
not be smaller than the mimmo she toque by Conductors shall be permited to be spliced or tapped in
oe accordance with 110,14, S003E), 00.15, and 015. Ponce
distribution blocks, presaire conncarors, and devices fer specs
230,48 Waring Mettods for 1000 Vols, Nomina, or Less, and taps shall be isd. Power distribution blocks installed on
Senice-entrance Conductor shall be instaled in accordance service conductors shall be marked “sullabie for te on th line
sith the applicable eguirements of this Code covering the ype side of the server equipment” or equiv ent.
of wicng meitod “shall be limited the follow
pi ng Method used and shall be limite 0 the Tope connector and devices fo spk and tape alle
hot N on service conductors shall be marea “suitable fo we on the
wing on stators Nine side of the service equipment or equisaleni
Toc ihabic auipren or equal
(9) Kigid metal condult RM) 230,50 Protection Again: Physical Damage,
(1) ntermertate metal conduit (IMC) N
() Intermediate metal cor (A) Underground Service Entrance Conduciors, Under.
o occa metalic abi heal ground sev cnrancs condos sll be picid agent
© Mecrial ncall Physical damage in accordance with 3005.
® Wiens
© a
00 NADAL ELECTRA CODE Sion
Copy NEPA or arse a NEPA Free Access pron No! or GB 10% Sou cnc cr gn
For tires Gort: SSE oncr “o (oro UT an 5 use COTE ESAS


--- PAGINA SUCCESSIVA ---

ARTICLE 200 — SERVICES 20.56
©) All Other Service Eatrance Conductors. AX other scrsice.  noncombustible, nenabracbent nsulating tubes. Dip loops
entrance condactors, athe than underground serdce entrance Shall be Frid on the conduttore betes they enter the tuber
Conductors, hall be protect again physical damage as i
Fri, 25059 Raceway 10 Drain. Whore caposcd to the weather

pried in 2050 or (82) cacivays encloring sense nia ee conduciore shall be Bod
{0 Semice Entrance. Cables. Servic-enirance cables, where or approved fot ue in wet location and arrange 19 dea
subjet to physical damage, shall be proteciod by an of he Where embedded in masa, racorags shal be arrange 10
ting; din
(1) Rigid meal conduit (SIC) 29054 Ovesbesd Service Eocaiona.
(2) intemediaie metal conduit (B16) — il be casppet i
(8) Schedule AN IC conduit (A) Service Hem. Service caccvays shall be oquipped with a
em alle vag (EMTI rv head at the point af conneclon to Soria dhop of ver:
(5) Rcintorced tnennoseting sks conduit (RTRC) ead service conduciore, The service head sill be ic for
(6) Oe approved meale use in wt locations.
@ Ober Than Service Entrance Cables. Inlhidual open (8) Service Entrance Cables Equipped with Service Head or
Conductors an able other than series entrance cables spall Goomeneck. Service enance cables shal be equipped with a
Rol be mca wihih 38 m (101) of grade ctor bere Serie head The sevice head shal be lied or ire in wet
exposed to physical damage. locations.
Esragtion: Type MI and Toe MC cate shall bepormittnl within 3.0 BX: Type SE cate shall bpd lode pormed dn a qoosenvcl
{10 1 of grade toed wii not exposrd to physical damage or whew and apni vità a seifsraling weather wsston cimnoplastic
oid i accondanee with 3903. (©) Service Hens and Goomnecks Above Service Drop or
23651 Mousing Supporis. Senicecntrance cables o isd. Overbead Servios Altachimem. Service heads on cause 07
Gal open Sonne condoriore shall be supported 25 Seniceentrance cables and goosencckt In sonic nirance
ETA (8). ere bic shal be locato above he. point of atachment of the
i senvicedtop or overhead servi ductors to the building ar
(A) Service Entrance Cables. Scrvico-entrance cables shall be gici Tm
Supported by cape or other approved means within 300 ram
{12 in) of every sorvice head, gooscncck, or connection to a Exelon: Whe il is impractical to bie he service bead or goose
en of encore and al nicol nol cxceeding JOR mr ck ab ite point of aA, he ver Mad or quo dora,
(nin). don salt rd ttn than 600 man (24 in.) om de pain
sf atarmari”
{B) Other abies, Gables that are not approved for mount 4
in contact ath a building or oiher structure shall be mounted (DY Secured. Servicoentcance cables shall be held securely in
on culating supports allel at intenali not exceeding Place,
35 MAIS tO andina mannerthat mmintalnza dearanee Of not (Ey Se 5
i parmely Bosbed Openings. Service heads shall fave
less than 50 mm {2 in.) from the surface over which they pass. conduttors of dil rent patenial brought out through sepa-
©) Indiviual Open Conductor Individualopen conductors cael hushed openings.
shall be installed In accordance with Table 23051 (0). Where ironauctor race entenes cal wit
Exposed to the weather, the conductors shall be mounted on d(H fuked melo le without
insalator: or an sult supports attached 10 racket brackets
or other approved means Where not expose o the weather, (F) Drip Loops. Dep bops shall be tormed on individual
the conduttore shall be mountedon tae or poccelain knobs. condaciors. To prevent the chance of molare, aie
on la entrance conduciors shall be connected to the sev 0p 06
230.52 Individual Contunore Entering Buildings or Other ‘mcthead service conductors cither {1} below the level of the
Stmcture, Where individual open conduct enter a bulk. erp Sore conductors citer, (1 below the level of the
ing or otte structure, they shall enice through coat bushings rv Meat 2) bebo th
of ibrough the Wall in an upvac slant though Individual
(3 Armagea Thar Warer Will Nov Ener Service Raceway or
Equipment Sone. trance and overhead service condos
Table 230.51(C) Suppons Shall be artangol so that water ml no enter Sc Fc nay oF
equipment
Maximum Minimum Clearance 230.56 Service Conductor with the Higher Voltage 10 Ground:
Distance On a dk, delia connedted service where the midpo it of one
Banca Baws phase vinding it rounded, the service conduetor having the
Maximum Supports Conductors Brom Surface kc phase vokage to ground shall be durably and perma
Sw mW mm in mmm mk marked by an out sh that is orange In olor or by
Tema ocr cele meas at cach eeminaion of Arion pont
wooo wm ow ow 2
FC RA A SR
fr OR EE
[rrp
Rn NALIN ELECTRA CODE an
Copy NEPA Fore ve ue or NEPA Free Access stn Net fr as Buon Gu gione cranny
Far aa ono ae roar om APS use coat RE


--- PAGINA SUCCESSIVA ---

me ARTICLE on — SERVICES
Pan. Service Equipmem — Genera A) Lecusion. The service disconnocting means shall be
2308 Semen Een onto Gute Eco. IRA arcane win BRAT. A) CE) a 5
dic par a servite equipe shali be clo] asspeciied (1) Readily Accemible Locason, The seruce disconnect
Fr equpre albe oglocet asspocitcdi (1) Beaty cette oruton he en disomeiny
As Eaton. Energie parts shall be endo so that hey CUide of a building oc cucu ac inside aces point of
Sl noi be expossd to acide rta contact ar shall be oar
pies @) Bathrooms, service disconnecting means shall not be
(B) Guarded. Encegized parts that arc not endosed shall be "aed in bathiome,
naked on a schboac pacino. or control board and (8) Remote Control. Where a remote contol docs) ic wo
ond in accordano ai 108 and 11027. ho ehe 1 attuale the omic rong moans. he Sr An
Tim part we guarded as provide in HOZIAXD ad nectng mean shall be ied In accordano vin 289704)
CAN) moan lor tacking of sealing doors providing access (1)
to energica parts sha be provided (BY Marking. Each service disconncet shall be pennanenty
(© Barrier, Baie sha be place in service equipment marked to Sen Itas a service dlsconncet
poet tht no anal ungraded service sha oF TV (03 Sulle For Ch, Bach sevice disconnecting means shall
oem © esposta do deen sonics pr of
mantenanee equipment while servicing load terminations with PE suitable For the prevailing conditions. Service equipment
pabicnanc equipe abile sein oa Sm in rao {cube cationi shall corpi seth
e te tazardouslocaion requirements
230.66 Marking. 250,71 Maximum Number of Disconnects. Each service shall
8 General. Service equipment cat at 1000 sls ax ers have nly one dissonnerting means anes ne reguicoments i
Shall be market to identity i hig suitable or ast as sertiee Tie met
A verve ie sal be luo Tek ei ita Geena tor e purpose al the section, dct
Taran liad as pata Fev equipment and used sole toi
(®) Meer Socks Meter sockets shall not be considered ser (he following shall tot be coed a service disconnecing
12 capac but shh be Hot anti pais fer dhe voltage and cant
cartoni ing ol te eee {8 Pont moniecingogupreni
Exreption: Meier sockets supplind by and under the exclusive conand of (2) sucgeprotective device(s)
arcani rali moteur be Rana, 1 (8) Contolciultol the proundtauli protection sem
© (1 Poneropeabl service deemed ean
230,57 Surge Proveation.
vecio (BY Two 10 Six Service Disconnecting Means. Tao to six sev
(A) Sarge Proweive Device, Al seis. suppbing tic ole odes shall be perme or adh ene pean
ing occupancics shall be provided with a sucge proteaive 2317 or fot rach set of serie entrant conductor permited
device PD) Bhan, orion NOT, 3.015 The semi
oh Drcling units coming rea: shall be paved to consist of a combi.
© Dormi ans ion ai anor the following:
©) Guest coms and guest suitesot hotels and metels 18) Separate enclosures with a main service disconnecting
© ira of macine horses anf Imes aches wed pois ag
‘exclusively as patient sleeping rooms @ Panclboards with a main service disconnecting means in
tinal Note: See 5 cach panclhoard endosure
hs "Ne See SUTAMBI EL 3) Swiechboard(s) where there is only one service discon
®) Location. The SPD shall he am integral part ot the sees Beet in ach separate vertical section ita Tae provò
quipricnt or shall be eae near acon hee dei belaten each coral medio do malnialo gis
vpn Te SD dt ot ett do De fet e tte serve Ea ot proteatoo Coked In 287 batt
ents ed in 210 HOT and un wd nr. Sm bape ion) dle matches, or
own equipment dan ram ivan te oat. metering centers where cach deconneet is locato in a
© Trp. The SPD shall bea pe lor Tpe 2390: Cone paren
© We en wih a main senice disconnecting
(Dì Replacement. Where service equipment  splacd, all ot et ce
the requirements of this section shall apply. (6) Motor control centers) where there is only one service
Sn dat bane a moa discharge current ne in a motor veo center unt a a Ta:
©) Reng SP sal are tare drcomee nt a mote ntl come i ana 2 ma
foi control center ih bank provider bets
To molo amie crs nil sparen contain
ari VL Service Equipment Disconnecting Means ing a ei disconnoci lo maintain he inacherini
Pari Vi Service Equip Dis Lo contaci protection required in 23062 based on access
130.70 General. Micare shall be provided 10 disconneet all Toes acer er contra) Center nis x apa
grandes ondaciors ina blog of other Sracire dro oni
ie condactor
we [EE ——
Sommer NEPA Foren a use co NEPA Fre fess fr No! ra tin con cus rs
Roeser


--- PAGINA SUCCESSIVA ---

ARTICLE 250 — SERVICES Bas
Expo to (2), 31.09, (31, and 61 Exiting sve equip, 280.78 Manly or Power Operable, The service disconect
tated in conte ih ros ins a i Cos a ein, can for grind service conduetori shall a of
made ek dogo to an gl rela son, on of he ow
ortompartmeni, hl red io oma a AUR of six servite (1) A manually operable seach or circ breaker equipped
directing means, with a handle or otlicr suitable operating means
kmail Note No, Li See UL 62, Sd for Fomrts (2) A poncroperatoll swich or circ brake prose the
To gonna merci emer keh a cre breaker can be opened by band in the
Hier mato nal Note No. 2: Examples of sepa coors with event of a power supply failure
ee ming es im hee de 23077 cain, The service dhsconnecting means shall
ara wo i o nc Sn Te Bos, bE er a) fon
meses ply
rma Noe S05 nis wb ac Hd vili par Rating of Service Disconsecing Meana, To. sre
oh whe hie on aki verse damned by sep disconnecting means shall tave rating not less than the calci
aca lo to he. cami, determined dn accordance iid
250.72 Groupiag of Dimonnecta. Fart, or V of Article 226, ar spphiable ln no case shall
(4 Ceneri, The tro 0 sin omnes, € pried nH be onor Ba pried in 250796), (8), (C), or
‘280.71. shall be grouped. Each ditconnect shall De marked 10
fits cas One Cres stallions. For installations to supply onl
limited oad of a single branch dn. the service dome
Epo: One te na to sa sok dicomerting mam pito ug means shall fo han 5 amperes
in 39071, ahd wd on fo sey pump aio od to provide
Jr protschono shan fori to 0 oad remoto fm e actor (8 Too Circuit Jastalations. For installation consiting of
vinings 1 mont otal in arronimer with iti it more than Io Zire branch cies, Ue sevice deco.
supina piau shall ed 1 cto of 0 ANE Acting mean saltare a rating of hot fan 0 ampere
pouped disconnets dmoring is bouton. (C3 One Family Dwellings For a onc family dheclling, the scrv-
8 Addons! Service Discomnectig Mears, The onc or ie deconnoeting mean hall ave a rag of mo lese an
more mn) res comming nea lo fre pumps, Ion ape St
emergency maemo, log require sab. or priora i
os Son shall be sal ume DY All Gur. For all ater installation, the seri discon
from the onc to six service disconnecting means for normal necting means shall have a rating of not less than #0 ampercs.
service lo mane he possibiliv of simulianeout XT mipuon 23030 Comiined Rating of Disconnecs. Where the service
of pps comcenmg meant cohAas OE more fan one ich or
10 coapan In a muliplsoccupancy bud  Sirculi breaker, ae penitied by 240.71, th combed ratings of
e occupanti shall fare acer o tiga 4 all the switches or circuit breakers used shall not be less than
disconneeting means. the rating required by 28079.
Eup tn a mitocesponcs viding where lnc sre an 20-81 Connection 10 Terminale, The service conduc shall
el mato it Sing nro and De Cont oth eve decoy means pres
on as me und owes DU manage pean, SWS, clamps, or Hb approved care. Connections
the nice disconnecting meas SKPLASING maT aN one ACUPANY that depend on sokler shall not be eel.
hao prin o 0 vb o albori it MAR POS! 280.02 Equipmem Conese 10 he Supply Side of Service
a. Disconnert Onte te showing mm al peed
250.74 Simananeon Opening of Fale, Each service discon. 10 be conneerd 19 he pp ee oft eve nce
et shall rancor distonnect all mgood service TEA
condudors hat it conirole fom th proms ring sero. 0) Cable hier.
28075 Disconnection of Growded Gonducor, Where the) Han mere ores oral ned on ny eet
Feror hen A cane doe no disconneei he gro SL sole tall metal bso, adc edotto
conducior from the promises wring. othr meant sl be I
provide for this pur pote in the fe rete equipment. A ernia] inaordanes wih Part Vor Arle 258
Sri to vid Bh fied ott cin de attached be Hei omnes ices foina la i n cacce
means of prosmurc conncctors shall pe pormiticd tor hic ‘qual toor greater than the available Gaul current, if all
apo. In a muiceion svilchboard or Scheer. dicon:
pups hee metal housings and service enclosures arc grounded in
Pec for th growntod comdurior shall be penniicd to be in meal ao aud serves lores wr gowded in
anyone the sdichboard or sichgear the ichbrard aceoane wih Part Vi and bonded ja accordance
or wlchgear ction is marked indicate grounded conduc: hak be capable of interrupting the od ere A meter
econ shall be leghi: Bed marke iu exterior ia
Stl Nt: stia cn kc ih, da ean suitable for the envitonment ae folov
pali Beni i nen dica Tardi ail METER DISCONNECT
[sep be han do rei heer NOT SERVICE EQUIPMENT
Casate
tn SAT ELECTRA CODE as
Coty Fore a ai NEPA Fre Acar Noi fr it tion cose cu in
Fa Coo or ARS Tae a1 Sr, SEATS


--- PAGINA SUCCESSIVA ---

ARTICLE 240 OVERCURRENT PROTECTION pen
designor maintenance of ceca salto. The ckcion tad db int she he cl ke ve
sull be armen and amped ne prolemional Sagl: CHIR of OR Mea È ENEA Ta arienane
pe Tir documonaion dll be alk i hmvcaubodiod ee
This serics combination rating, including identification of the Hr
penta device, shall be Till marked on 1h end Lee aul. ntl Mo Me... rar he «Gon
fs Hal Camera des ka a ent fg

© el vare vee e ge
For calculated applications, the ince shall ensure dhat eli anita catena st dine os bed
the fovea citt! breaker(à dual ate part ol the series heist rk wr he miniati po iii
combination nai passe faci he ingrrupiion Period i ” o
mal Noe No 4 See IEEE 1584 2018. BEE Conte pr
to line side lls calca, ending dec omo da Biol Fark Fens to ance A
mail Note: Sc 11022 for making eis combine Moi aim save
tion ica. 4 Performance Testag. The arc encrge reduction protec.
®) Tee Combinations. The combination of lineside over. tin sor hal be peiormanc cic by. primary carter
Greene deve and adi Seu besakerte, dr Jd ad injection no another appro method Ebon Ft ree
enka the co we cpr. ach ar ohn and let on ste. This 60m Shall be conduttori by a qualficd
panciboards sont i accordaneo ih the mamaria oF tse.
mail Note: See 11022 for nin fst coo A arin cecord o ts testing shal be mate and shall be
fey xd toh shod having ir sron.
€ Motor Contin. cic ange shall no be wae the natn Note: Some cry fon pei sica
tog situation vete gropyint deg osm vi
(1) Wee mar irae comme been higher og Se andy dat
ai vrai dre 0 a srs iol combination Sra ene Ff be
and on tte bv ic act bezaler
@) Were the rum ol these molo kb cers exces 24029 Replecemem Tp Unita, Replacement trp units shall
pera Di be inemiping aig of the Ivers be Rice for se wih the circoli breaber ape in ich i x
circuit breaker insialec
14087 Are Energy Reaction, Where the highest continous Infor Note: The ean ico ak can be oid
curcent wip sctting for which the actual overcuerent dee: midst he ind of deren wk cd fore
oa cre caer Ado can be adc Isfol he spot dirai ade
ampereso higher, 240 #7), 91 and (C3 shall apply
A} Documentation. Documentation sali be lable tn those Pan VIL Superata Inds istallazione
Mubociaca to design, mal operate, or impe the eon gee Gemma Ortica pearilon la atea 0 superriec
3 to the location of the drcuit breaks). Documentation {cal installation shall compl with all of the other api
shall ako be provided to demonic that the method chosen cable provisions of ths article, except a provided in Part VIT
adable acing erro, CH operate ata value below ME part VIII shall be permkicd to appl any to those portions of
sralablc arcing cent the cial sister the geen Industrial beatin
(®) Method 10 Reduce Glariog Tene, One of the toloming ted exelusiveli os manag x proces control aie
ican al prod ant shall be sci tooporale 1008 300 Frovectonf Commo: Cainer «tall be pote
the available arcing curcens: tedin accordance with 240 94 (A) or 240.91 (B).
11 Zonesckeeiise necking
@ trea ts Genera. Gondor shall be prateeicd in accordance
{55 Encrgnmducing maintenance switching with cal status with 240,4,
indicator (BY Devices Rated Over 800 amperes. Where the overcurrent
(4) Encrgy-roducing active arc Hash mitigation stem. device È tated over #00 amperes, the ampacky of the conduc.
(5) An inctantancous trip setting. Temporary adjisiment OF tore it protocts shall be equal to or greater than % percent of
the inctantancous rip setting to achieve arc energy IS the raling of the osercuttent dew in accordance wih the
ton shall ho be pce. pote
@ An naartameai aver
a approval cient mare Oro ops TR
Fi gels salve Resid Casal Note: Table 240.948) pubes tinte va. sort
Ei og al Me atei ren emit. Semi (oy and
Roig wi veh bo, a ddr i i ac
SPR Swit fr Erect yo og and me mich the contr eit ene
Sr ETAT NT 2) Ab cqdpmens nhc he con tied
iena eed marked othe application,
orm No No, 2 An cnet ih ato
irirtehat gts hiv Verge
Sern No LEC CODE Hm
Cor NPA Fore a PA re Acar 1 coe cu rn
Fa Coo Ace, Tore a1 SA SEAS


--- PAGINA SUCCESSIVA ---

ARTIGLE 240 — SERVICES no
(A) Ungrounded Condirtor. Such protection shall be provi: ited 10 br couse on the up id of he vic our
ded by an once device in series wih cach ungrounded die hm spate) rudd hun ura ein,
service condacior that tne a cin o sing bo es tan puo ne Sea i rr ots sat
The ampadiy of the conductor. A te of lung shall be cont, Exptl No, 37 Mtns ori rated mot in xs of 60M us i
cred ai the fuses required to protec all the ungrounded (PRE prided all nal Musings and ows suchas ae
Conductors ota cect. Single pot circuit breakers grouped in 7A
Sccotdance wih 2807108), shall be considered ar an protcc:  Euvpiion a. 6: Whew vier equipment is pouer oprrabie, the contol
dive device, Citta sh br rete 10 bn comme hd 1 ric equipment
cuit comburmt printion and routing means am pr.
Exuption So 1: For sotortating crating tt comp ith
43052 460.62, and 1069 hk pried. + i dee
Exeepion No, 2: Fuses and cheat beaker with vain g or sezing that fait brie fir Fired
compli ith 243 Ur (C1 and 240.6 shat pomited Ere ii seeiera ol mote than 150 volts to ground bar rok
Exeprion No. 3: Tuo to six cina robes or sas of fu shall br Ckccoding 1000 volts phase to-phas lor cachi sve diacono
petto as the overirent device fo rock The mod reson, ct caked 1000 ampetes or more The grounded conductor
Ti son of te ving of hr cmt ebro fuss shall br period Co the sly ground we stem shall be Connected dics
red he ampacd f th ner conch, prod celeulated ta ground ough a grounding electrode ser, 3 specie
a dos od ih amp of th nc contr. in 5530, vit hos inse i any oso or Impeda nce device,
Exuption No. 4 Ouerisad puote on for fm pump suppl comtcors The cating al the series disconnect shall be considered to
promt ida iad be the rating of the largest lose that can be inated or the
Eni So 3: Onset peu in accordano wi oe condartor SEI CUNO SEE in è Ae on mei 08 ve)
ants of 21012 stat be pre fo igh during Lx
8) Na in Grounded Conductor, No mercuric shall Saona; THe rane prtrcfon puis of tis son shall
Borate Sp SR, nn a
Breaker that simullancousl apent allcondiciorrof ie circuit oy
25091 Location. The service overcurrent device shall be an
integral part o the service diconnocting moans of shall be on) Seng, The groundtaul protection scr shal operate
located immediately adjacent thereto. Where fuses are used as 0 G0 HE he fauled ccnl The apn BT WERE
the service anevauten device, the disconnecting means shall groundiani protection shall be 1200 amperca, and the mani
be located ahead of the suppl side of the uses aura time delay shall be one second fo ground ul cure is
230.92 Locked Service Overcarrem Devices, Where the wer. altos goatee than 80 apres.
ice vercurteni doco are ocho ar scald or ate not cad
(By Fuses. ll a rich and ose combination is use, the fuses
accemible 10 the occupant, beanch-ceeuls or focder over. ce sali tech and use combinadon e wed, the fuser
Cent devices shall be installer on e load side, shall be moun Ea be ara Be capable of bhkermipting aps cumant higher
ted in a really acess loon, and ahall be of 108 ipo groundiauli pres gee Mil no case ie ich to
Ampere rating than the sect overeitent deve. thes pi ”
28098 Protection of Specific Cirone Where moray to (Ci Performance Tesdag The groundiauli protection sister
prevent tampering, an automatic owcreurteni device Mal Gall be pedtonnance wed when Text prised site, This
pretets service conductors supplire ola specie load. Kh icating shall be conducted by a qualified pron) using a test
2 2 water halen, sha be pormi process al primary current lieetion, n accortandt wi
[ostnuetions that shall be provided with Ile quo ment. A wi
230.94 Relive Location of Overcurrem Device and Ober ten record of thi Ein shal be mare and shal be araibble to
Serie Equpment The cour ae hl potest all the bors bing picion
clei and desices fort Note Ko. L Cro Gk. protesti hai fi:
No, 1: The orice sich shal sr powited on ie a i rn ee wedi ne pre. in Fri
Eragon 30. 1:7 sh dr pom on ite supp alan ene a in
a Toi dan sts on See th Fd wl i
Exoption So. 2 Hlgihivodonce dane coc, sme air, frogs phim fault na de ha side nf Le
Tipe urge proteine dois, susgeprntovave capers, and stra prc cme.
mt former (caren and vkege) shal promittad br cone. Colorato! Note No, 2. This alt pris canis.
Io and tal othe supp side te tenace Geog means he ve arep RE cli Make 1 hey i FO ADE
sprite dg 23082 eni vir mie reper cale rf
prio rN pou
Eston No. 3: Gets or out mavens dis shall be peri Sma hi be Doni! ott abi banc Fo
to Ie commie om 00 py side f tar VRE uA BE where mesa Toit i eee
whine separa prided vitho porament pation. Iforimstiunal Moe No. $: Where gana prototion is
Exreption So. 4: Corus wn ot for hope ton of pie ar, of probe for sek mean merce i ae
i apa ty mn SAD nb ap Sey 4 Farrer ie, mean er
Debi NATAL ELECTRA CODE ls
Copy NEPA Foren sue a NEPA Free Access por No! or GT tion Sou ones er gn
For tres Gora: CSSA “o 1 ua use CORE ESAS


--- PAGINA SUCCESSIVA ---

285.1 ARTICLE 230 — BRANCH CIRCUITS, FEEDERS, & SERVICES OVER 000 VOLTS AC, 1500 VOLTS DE, NOMINAL
ov cu be nett cre proper ottalisoning by ©) Ungrounded Conductors. Ungrounded conductors shall
Ieioamblatli proci equi pe Mentilica In accondaner with 298 BICI) of (2. 28
Inforasatinnal Nic No, 4: Sce 517.144) fr information on applicable.
canalina sep frm fo ron tedio (1 Branch iris Suppbied from More Than One Nominal
fe ate balia mt da deo RE a cho e permuto meg are lat brani
cus supplica Hom more than onc nomina vollage IT.
CSch ungrounATI Sodio ola branch Circuit shall be Mond:
Ti by phase or lve andby nomirml nserusakageat all ie
nation. conncetion. and spice point in accordance wilh
TAI and OO). Deron seme sian the
ARTICLE 285 same premises that have the same nominal voltage shal be
i i mitica 100 the same identification
Branch Circuits, Feeders, and Services PENA) Mens of lamiheatione The means of idenitication
Over 1000 Volts ac, 1500 Volts de, Nominal shall be peniticd 10 he by separate color coding, marking.
ape, tagging or thee approcca can.
DI Pang & Iietifeation Mans. The method used toc
Pant. Genera conductors orignaling iin cach branche cui! panciboard
+ aride provides the general requirements Similar anh creat Aktion equipment shall be docu»
80.1 Scope. This arid provides the general quiets eater ia a manner that is ecadily ada of shal be pera.
for branch circus, ee {tly posed at cach brancheitcuit panciboard or Arar
pranchelteuk distribution supe. The label shat be of
tri Nec: See ANSUEEE C10, Nord Fired Soin durabilit 08 vad eovironment Ive and
Shay toto fr cetona tab wi or We, av be ann
patty
Excpton: n iting ston whee a voltage scent) toy
ih and nda gian i mE A anal de pian
Parti. Brunch Circus io ak ons 1. noe et sedge, Ee ded stone
I a Sl nk int ntti di rara non, cation.
235,5 Other Arles for SpecificPurpose Branch Cw qué se ota arcordone wih 23H and (CA
Table 238,3 lis releronce tor peal SUPT and applica: boda tere brs aa Cop
tions nor board hes an 7k amend Or pple. tr a nl en dros gip
ment the coquirements of this tice. Systm), The new sim foil) shall incu the wets “other
235,5 Conductor Kentliaton for Branch Circe df sms it on he rs
{A} Grounded Conductor. The grounded conductor of a 2) Branch Circuits Supplied fram Direat-Currem Sysems.
Branch ite shall be enti in accordance wih 2008. Whee a branch cect suppl from. a de stom operate
at moce than 190 vols, cach ungrounderi conduior of
(®) Equpmem Gro Conductor, The equipment 3 AMC o larger shall be identified by pola at all termina.
granda Conductor Mall he Gentibel n cene BE Mi hn concn al soli panes me ape go
ty olbtr approned cane and cach angrounded CONFUSE i
AMC o smaller hal be nm fie by pac at all termina
tim. connccion, and spice pont In compliance vil
2 MODA) and CDI. The denicalon mods
ife Equi cr tor condor originaling mithin cach brancheireuit
Dib 2853 References for Specific Equipment and panciboard or similar branch.citcuk disisibutlon Soupment
Applicatione Not Locaed in Chapiere 5 6 and? Hall bo documenied in a manne Mat is rah; valle ot be
— ee e TiaNRÒY POCA t Cach branchveicculi panciboar rim
Equiranect Ariete Section lar branch ciccuk distribution equipment.
rostonior a PIP a) ostie Tovar, Sue 6 AUT: or Small: Where the posi
einen: pies uve prey of a de em docs not serie ar dhe connettion
pon pt) paint tot ln oan condurio each Poste nga
Cat ingen px Eonducror hall be identica br one of th lolionang ean
he fan beat ceri a continuous red outer finish
pace beallnt coniate? @ A continuous rod stripe durabls marked along the
Fixe cloth heaing and conductor's entire length on insulation of a color other
cadpmenifor pipeline than green, white, gray. or black
DEEL tein © Irmponisd ph Se (+) of the med POSITIVE or POS
sic spasctestine us dati mara oon os or oc lat
From det pu green. nile. gras. ar black and (peated at intera not
n codes cent Fi (21 in) in accordance with HORE)
Preston 0) An approved permanent mating means such ar iccsing
en Lapis PEST 0: ka that is suitable tor the conduca: Se. at
[nbd Sh icomimuon, connection; and spice pois, wih
sce npr cheat 430 Împrinicd pla Sg (+) of the ord POSITIVE ax FOS
pete
rer [ER ——
Copp NEPA Foren 186 oo NEPA Free Access gL Not dr ars 40% our GHG Gr Gn
For vece Coa. sae ripa era 70 rear AUTRE ue SOA SSA


--- PAGINA SUCCESSIVA ---

ANTICLE 235 — BRANCH CIRCUITS, PEEDERS, & SERVICES OVER 1100 VOLT AC, 1500 VOLTS DE, NOMINAL 28828
durably marked on insulation of a olor aber ian 23519 Conductors — Minimum Ampecity and Size. The
green whic, gray. ot black ampacky of store shall be in accordance th 310.3 1and

Negus les, Sire 6 AWG or Sally: Where the 31860, as applicable Branchelreuli corductore shall be size
negate poy of a de RCT docs nol serve ar the connec: dn accordante with £35 1900 Ge (8)
tion oink for the grounded onda, cach negative Ungrouiy
point fo hes conduce cach NES WSTOUY (ry Genera, The ampacity of branchelreult conductors sal
det Coco shal be eid by one of th foloning 4) Cert Toe spac of ph ciel udu ol)
Urlization anion oa wl be operata ATLA ARC RLY
0) Acontinuous bik outer finish oe "ope
© A continuous bho stripe durably marked along the (B) Supervised [nsillaions. For supersised installations,
ductors entice length on insuation of a colt other branch-atcuit conductor siting shall be permitted to be deter.
Te ie goa 0 minca by quale persone nT engineering super son
© imprinied minus sighs (3 or the word NEGATIVE or Supervised installations arc definod as those portions of a
NEG durabk marked on insulation of a color other than facility where both of the following conditions ace met
on, whic ga, or od and cepeated at Inienali not (1) Conditions of design and installation are provide under
Geesin 610 mmm (21 in) in accordance MA SOR) ngi peo P
0) An approved permanent marking means such as skceving (2) Qualifica persons with documentod training and cxperi-
‘or stirietubing hat Ska for the conducior site, at ct in or 1000sol ae dr 1500 el de sieme provide
Sheen, connection, and. spice pas. ih en Fe,
imprinicd mass dg €) or the word NEGATIVE of
NEG durably marked on insulation of a color other than £35.20 Overcurrens Protection. Branch-civauit conductors and
en toy equipment all be proteica by orereutrent protcetive delete
that base a ath ar set tha complice ih £45200)
235,6 Branch Cireuù Voltage imitans Over 000 sons ac ar bog E)
1500 volts de, Nominal, Between Conductor. Circuits exec N
Ing 1900 lar oh do ore) eee avai A) Comino and Noneomimone Lost Were a branch
05 be perme to supply utlimiion equipment in ale CHCl: supplica conto koh or a common af oni
iw Coons of maintenance and apron sare 2005 1 Noncontinuoue al, the rating O he orercutton
that only qualied persons service the installation. device shall not be less than the noncontimuous load plus
va i 125 percent of the continuous load.
235,9 Circus Derived from Aimotraosformers. Branch
Circus shal io: be derive from ako es unless the Sion Wav the anto, including th veri dics
ciecult supplicd tes a grounded conductor that is cloctorally Proweding the branch cies, is disted for oprvation af 100 peer of
connected to a grounded conductor of the sysiem supphing #1 UIE the ampere rating of he overrinent dei shall br pind
he att rane, “e br nor les hh uf ne am bond piu che poe
pre]
245.0 Ungrounded Conductors Tapped from Grounded
Semo, Tae de creas and ae Tras of fun of mare (8) Condocior Protection Conductors shall be pratetcd in
Te aaa al be perio so be amon om, accordance wih th pace specibod i 310.11 0 1507
the ungrounded conductors of citcuits that have a grounded 35 applicable.
ul conto Swichng devin n et pen Hl (Cy Equipment, The the
uipmen. The. cating or sting of the overeurent
sm bs pect angel come Al ple of peda dali al cid ope
where such switching devices also serve a a disconnotting oi rics referenced in Table 2463 for equipment
rans as cequedby he Eilloing sions 235.22 Permimible Loss, Indiviual Branch Gren. An nd
(1) 1003 for double. pole itched lamphelders “hal branch circuit shall be prs to suppir are bad for
ey equip "heh it ir cl bi In no se shall the nd electa the
ment witching devices branch-rcuk ampere ai ng.
(3) 1223108) for an appliance 985.98 Permissible Loads, Multi pie.Oullei Branch Circuits. A
12120 lor baci lacie spacnheating uni Branch cull PPR Ino Ge more Guilct of rectpiackcs
© 15! for cori deci and Semen equipment hall suppl only tht ate specie according to I siae In
© 19045 for a motor controler accordance nih 210 2A) though (E) and as summaritev in
@ 10.03 fora motor 21021, an in no case al th Had xc he Branch he
45.11 Branch Circus Required The migbrum number of PSE rating.
Branch circuiti shall be detcmincd from he total calculaicd A) 15- and 20 Ampere Branch Circuito, 13 or Harpers
oad and the size ve Fang of the cc ued Tn ali installa bene Secs sali be pod 10 pls Ling soli
tions, the number of circuits shall be sulicient to supply the lighting unit, or other ulation cquipment, or any combina
load served. tin of dere, and shall comply with 295 Z3(A) (1) andl (3) (2).
285.18 Rating, Branch crcl cocogniacd by th arucle shal dl) Gordo Plug Connected Equipmem Not Fasiened in
be rated in accordance with the maximum ported ampete Place, The rating of any one cordand:plug.connecicd utiliza.
rating oF setting of the ECU devier: Where ondutiore £m omnia oop Heme kp ccd ula,
‘of higher ampacity arc uscd for any reason, the ampete rating 4 pecaunt o the branchciccut ampere tating
or hing of the specifica aver cu fon device shat Aer
he iron ing. @ Ontzaion Equipmem Fasened in Place. The total ct
oF utilimtion cq PAE: fastenca in piace, other than lami
ws NATAL EECA GO an
Copp NEPA Foren use oo NEPA Free Access gt Not dr ars buo con GR Gr Gn
Fr euns Coa. Sepa Sa rear union dea ue SoA CSTR


--- PAGINA SUCCESSIVA ---

09520 ATICLE 230 BRANCH CINCUTS, FEEDERS SERVICES OVER 000 V ATS AG, 100 VOLTI DE. NOMINAL
acs. dali msc 80 pect of de baht ape 100k lle code Eh 258.202C) 6.0
poribmaidfonsibe sds yin ones
he eae Sopp Tram. To ptf oi
(830 Amper Bras Coca, A arr ean ec oman el ab oh he vameniale
eh at Kg Ess bendato cof tron soph wh oi wos
(mph i aber CA lat are ei
TERT LE TUES SIE Se Teter a Ci En
Roe a ne bore a et exere ment. The ampacity of fecders supphing a combination of
pe pere rating. traneformers and utilization equipment shall not be lese than
G1 dl. and 50 Ampere Branch Cuca, oc Wamp E Su SI npn QU al Ue rs aa
fan Gre li De Sa doing ores 1 poco head pon a e the oo
I al a Ay
Gelling ane, such cireuts shall be pertain to supply fed i e
1g unt rh os all be bec WEG pei Calin Fr peed inallaione
ging ute vi bea hy amphi foe beatog (0 SEIS, Sb BL mea
quip qualifica persons under enginee ing superision i accordance
(D1 Branch Chase Ton 50 Ampere cach ceca Si STD START Sp msl de
Eo kin les Set te pion of oho ld oi
x rE
43268 Biman Requising Servic A ca, sole Gomdltione i dodo and allo ace provid une
prong ogni Sysori Suing oligo vy
installed at an accessible bation within 75 m (25 ) of the 2) «Qualified persons with documented training and cxperi-
anes EE a mem peste Samos
ig ong Fm
oi 235205 Overatem Proton, Feds shal be prov
(A) Heating, Air-Conditioning, and Refrigeration Equipmen 5%" overcument
IEEE SETI ss bapa of ret coped br to ante
[ETS robe PAR de sri iy be Re od
Ian. The cp a mo pra pe Eon SE he dn such a
Te be og Moe Ai ov of ie aig of
oe M ies ac i bo icy
plier A eple let shell poi be gui at on and evo. Sx bre apphing demand factors the demand factors wed,
family dwellings for the service of evaporative wolers: the calcubicd load after apphing demand factors, and the size
(B) Other Electrical Equipment. [n other than onc. and tivo 2d pe of conducnes to be bs
EE Th be Io Ses. zo recto Epo, Going Gc, Wie
E : cer Eqipmen Grounding Conduce Whee: a
Rh (8962 phils gibi Rabo
(i Indoor Senise Eppmen. To teguisca ceceptack olor SSAA tn Code a oof Boo
shall be located within the same room or area as the senice  Squipment grounding monductor, to which the oquipment
ie lo one lo of e beach rc sal bes.
i de Dalai E Ea nei Dodger wove
@ Indoor Equipmem Requeing Degloned Eppes Me feeder supplier ee
frlioge lvl Msi '
ceques dedicated equipment space a speed in 110 Z6(E), 235.212 Kentification for Feeders
eet poe dial de Wa wb mk or Sot co ant soc of a
form eal up ant wo (Sind Con Ti snd soc of 2
ei. ona ae Te ey fe
(® Eguipmem Groundine —
fick reo Wisc in Blt
Pant, Fenere Eno
255300 Ceneri, Pat 6 cons the allo cps (© nile of Ongrvunded Conduetora. Unie
ee a E ee Se
pss enn i Vol ae Br lata
1500 sols de, nominal {13 Feeders Supplied from More Than One Nominal Valuge
255300 iin Fang and Siae. The amps of condo poems amen? he mene ag en Vents
roslyn ib BIO AT and a a ey me AS
ion ae oe otek BONA Ey domato a ese: AA br pie
er SATIRE I ae al dl emai comin le
hehe Shh Soph hc Bed ee DN
Ca TT ER aaduio ret
Comm NEPA rec ue co NEPA Five emt Not be a coer rvs
A ee oes


--- PAGINA SUCCESSIVA ---

TILE 289 — BRANCHI CCT, FEEDERS, SERENE 1000 WELT AG, 1200 VOLT DC, NOMINALIS.SS
Mms of tates The mene of idenitieaion serio Bat ate cu om r be dg, so
lle i ego To me Centennial tc on ns be bd eo
he pric mb by pr Foon emer sd cial cpap dg oc
re NN dR EL A en
cn Stn ts To neds shed io de outdo bik, mies ple
{ois aging in xh is pou ie bch ce, al oe a e le eo
br ele dh cnprens Jl be drome ns 150 le de all compl wine ppl
Cops sol leper pede et i hd Pe
ment 285.306 Conductor Size and Support. For overhead spans,
on Petre appt from DiC Sm wh a SoA Sor Pim ara Span For bed RANE:
8 Fete Sapp fom Dive Corm Sem hop eld soo dl oe lf 0
fs oppo om» 4 ye pris mrs bn copra ie on oo
Lh Ch al oes SLC bE WG mp oro AN hmm hoc
and splice pis by marking tape, tagging. or other approved 255-510 Wiring on Bulldogs (or Other Swractuessh The etal
meane; cach ungrounded conductor of § ANG: or sma Lee shall tion of outside wiring on se aces of buildings for other struc.
pe identifica by polaris at all ter masation, connection, and rcs) shall be installed as provided in 305.3.
te oh SEES TID 28m ts OpemConi Spc Coicines shall cl
CE Te enicnion pho lich ff coco rp
fag hn cock fer pot oc mle feeder dii aang of Diemer. The ci oe racic
ln cops domo ina recs 85383 Rene of Danes The ko hued ct
panclboard or similar fecder distribution equipment Calculate bod ta be «applied, determined in accomanc kh
robb et tea AE TL ST
tie polarity ofa de ram docs hot serve as the connection for Article 220 for focders, or Part of Artide 220 for farm loads.
NEPI ae E O eee i
re. To ig of cr ne
shall be identified by one of the folloring means 1900 volts shall be in accordance with 289.1A) for branch
0 3 oases ef sop daly naked AMT 155.50 ling Swi iis il ces or. ol
ee leg on i sa Loy SO te ber 0 2k ok
me es. E king disconnecting means, an {lating ich wih visible
pel rr wd rT oc ros [ATS ASTI Bn, oli ea bt
Ctl nbd So alin 7s coe ober hn SRLS me i LE
ji Fo pe ecing means and all associate pups:
or ttn es ome mint sor diron
all termination, connection, and spice points, WN ynts fod canwof br pred unless the ronde is disennnriot and (hat
tas a dati comers atu dt did cond.
prairie EC lay CAR rt Lert
{b) Negatue Polity, Sizer 6 AWG or Small: Where the 285352 Disonnecting Means.
negatise polarity of a de system does not serve as the COME. (A) Location. A bulding or structure disconnecting means
tion for the groaned socio Sach rogaine ungeoundedd Stall be located In accordance wih £05 SY. no ready
conductor sì lentificd by one of the falloving means: accessible, it shall be operable by mechanical linkage from a
PRA phe hl be pete by hid lage fo 2
AT RATIO et song r,t mpeg scl ol
ohne Pk ase bly mk sv tei des he mgm, hb pm 0
us cee bod on, oda pra) by telly ae
NEG sural marked on culation of a color other than (8) Type: Each budding or structure disconnect shall simula:
green what, gray. or cd and coped at iniorial not eos disconnect all ungrounded supply conductors it
exceeding 610 mm (21 in. in accordance with 310 AB) controls and shall anc a fault chebg cati not less tan the
{1) An approved permanent making means such as slocsing avail fault current at its supply terminals.
ses eee ooo af prua
mi on ee pol vin to, on td thet es or ued
pti, St CB cae, md imi 9 of gna 1g
pied nn ©) SASK a ova ell rund er edt it
url melo dont tr pt br Ls part el 8
ee
pari iv. Ovi Brant Circuit ani Fees noe ed mi ely mount oc are
Pant, Omir oy BREE AT TY md ESA
“301 Coma, Part 1 gie memes for ouside RE er ee
Ho Cov pa I mee semen cei pe ati }


--- PAGINA SUCCESSIVA ---

238358 ARTICLE 235 — BRANCH CIRCUITS FEEDERS, & SERVICES OVER 1900 VOLTS AG, 5500 VOLTS DE NOMINAL

1G) Locking, isconnoeting means shall be lockable open in (B) Test Repo. A te ceport covering the esl ofthe toss

Seconda wih 11925 oie In 233 $5503) shal be delet to the uber

Frio: Wine an individual diseomnerting means consists of fue Ping jurisdiction prior to enc cgimtion.

Cra nt donna og ert and oA 8 Uforinsiond Now: Se AIUNETA ATS, terms Fr

Co al tot os iis lb GR af a ora bt Serer fo Hit Penn Drees Ett ont

a eun fiesta aris

{Dy Indicating. isconnccting means shall cleadly indicate 235.360 Clearances over Roadways, Walkways, Rail, Water, and

whether they ace in the open oil or chscd “on” position. Open Land.

© Uniform Postion Where disconnecting means hands (A) 22 kV or Les 10 Ground. The clearancs: ov roan,

See operaio cra. the “vp postion of ite handle shall be Valkwase, ca mater, and open land lot condor and ie

Rhein position parti ip 10 2 ox Ee to ground shall be not bo ian ie
Tales stona in Table 249 S000)

Excpion: A icing die having mor dia ou on" position.

Te doit metta, ot guint wom att i (8) More Than 22 AV 10 Ground: Clara tor the care

i i cio shoes in Table 2353503) shall be Ucreasod by 3 mmm
31m) per ky, of major action ther mare than 32K

© Mention, Where 3 building or cue bas wns i

Combination of feeder, branch drat, or services Pasi €, speci Cone or spec cues, sch ae hee cogs

Ibrough or upping it. a permanent plo or directory sali be made over ble, rivera oc areas using lage sce

be nale dl cata Fede ana anche Aber ca ch de mining opal specifi de sha be Engheceed

tion that denotes all other services, feeders, or branch circuits considering the special drcumstances and shall be approved by

Supplying that building or structure or passing through that the authority having jurisdiction,

building or structure and the arca served by cach. Information! Note: Se ANSUIEEE C22017, Notional Eirconent

155% losperdonsan Tenta, a Cat ordina oman

(A) Pre-Enesgiasion and Operming Tess. The complete ce. 289.361 Clearances over Buikdings and Other Structures.

ial som design induding mgs tor pratective snitching (A) 22 KV or Less vo Ground, The carances over building

and cono! Sich, al be prepared In advance and Made and other coco fo Conductor ani 1 parts up to 22 hO

aradable on toquest to the bors having edition and oF less fo ground shall be mor ere han Th value show In

Shall be pertormanee tose when et installed ovate Each Table 289 AGI

protectine: aatching, a sonno) ck sali be cd dn

Secosdance si the see edge and ete by actual opera: (8) More Than 22 KY 10 Groand. Clarances tor the catego

Bon using current nf io ql meso near; Aes hows in Table 23961 {A) shall be inca tr 8 mm

ate at each So vet si rc peri somecy v3 0.1103 per KY, or major acon three, more than 2 kV

the satistaction of the authority having jurisdiction. of wana] Noe: Se ANSUIEEE C2207. Neal Bleowent

0 Insiramem Transformers All instrument uansformers Sefer Cob fot aim form bn.

Shall be tested to vert cote polaritr nd Burden

1 Protective Reims. Each protoctive celay shat be demon: Pani V, Servier

aaa petri ois papi and 295,401 Genera. Part V coves cequiemens toc service

hing that the atncatod Ech and Agua funcione Contos and equipment used on cece vce 1000 volte ac

‘accu corcotly and in proper lime and sequence to accomplish 1909 volts de, nominal, shall compl with ab of the applca

ecu correctly and in proper ti a is ble coquicoments in Parts | through Vil of Article 230 and with

protective function inten Part V of this artide, which supplements or modifes those

3) Sweting Circuito. Each sviiching cect shall be observed coquisements. li no case hall i provilons of Part apply 10

ko operate he nce equipment being eich amet on he suppl tte ol sey Point

1) Control and Signal Circuit, Each control signal dick a

Shall be ere fo prio fs proper conio Beton or Mie 238.360) Clearances aver Rosana, Waller Rail,

produce acorrect signal cui put, Water, and Open Land

(5) Maesering Circuits. AN metering cect shall be wept. Tg

operate cect ora kage ant a oe in a Similar JEN

manner to protective relay circus Location n it

© Aoceplance Tessa, Complete accep tes shall be OPE Rd oy ks se ws

Ernie, cupe condociort and contr amd proscthe Pazienti he se we

Seema, appa. io veh he pro ofa inten, doo “ ws

1 Rete and Mete ring Utliziag use Differences Al cclays Rab a ns

and metering that tee phase dillerences for operation stall be Spee and wa for pedestrians 4 183

Sergio by cami phase anor di ine ly Wd aan] 04 oto ile

A me pha wer te Wa ron wa suitable for s2 na
ein —

10-10 [Tp Bresson

Copy REP For nce oor NEDA Free Access allor No! fr ars sn Gos cn eng
Foun co Soe own 70 portera dea ue LR SSM ATS


--- PAGINA SUCCESSIVA ---

ARTICLE 29 — BRANCI CIRCUIT, FEEDERS, & SERVICES OVER 1000 VOLTS AC. 1300 VOLTS DE, NOUSINALS5 400
‘Table 258361 (A Ciearance ver Buildings and Other 285.405 Disconnecting Meas.
Stractares A) Location. The service disconnecting means shall be bora.
RI
Cerano from Comomor SOBEL WR cliber ovrbead or underground pracy discbution
__ LwPwsfom om Rom Ron on private propery, the service dicansect shall be
ting vate proscion and 25 75 emi oh cao in a location that is no cal ec:
vidoes Ple: the deconnerting means can be aperaioa by mechanical
blow cule and similar 23 73 AL 193 linkage from a reati accemible point, or clecronicallo in
sia vi people 7 accordance with 28 409000 whet applicable
Onerarunder ors = = 8 Mò ae achscnice icone sollsimlancouts decon
Lari feci all ungiounded seesier conductor that enol and
PRA ai isa pol imc a att ch ag al to lets ha the aa
A le (null current at 2 mpl inal
Over racks accessible inicks 36 Ws Where used switches or separately mounted fuses are
Niersovenres 2 5 installed. he fase characcrbic hall be prea to etc
ule Ro faut closing rating th Aceh mea
285402 SeniceEatrance  Gomduevors. Serviceenirance  () Remote Como, For imulibuilding, industrial nella
conductors to buildings or cnckearcs shal be Iai to rione ume single management, the ferree deeomnecting
contorto 28 402CA) and (6) nears shal be Beno 10 be located at a separate balle
’ or trattate, In sch cases, the service disconneeting mean
8 Conductor Siae, Servicr-enirance conucor shall not be
Salle ha € AU unione da ie cable Seon, ll be permite be chill operated bs a ely acces
Actor cable shall no: be male han AMC
i! 255.406 Overcuzrem Devices as Disconneating Meana, Where
(5 Wine Melina sericoonwance conductor hall be he Coy Decaler or alternative for it ai specie n 250 00
stall by one of the wiring nctbock covered in 303.3 and for re euercunieni deve, oes oe fequireimenti spe
bed in 253.9, hal contate the service dbconnoting
235,404 Bolwing Swick. mean
A) Where Required. Wher ail switches or air al, sacuuin, or 235.408 Protection Requirements. A short circuit protective
Safur hellaorae ica breaker come he sie devier shall be peonidor on the load side of. or aan Iniegral
Misconnecting means, an Gola sich wih visible break gato, the serlice disconnert, and shall oie al unger
contact shall be instal on the supply side of te scones. ded conduc that it supplies. The protortise device shall be
{0g means and allassociate sce supe ni capable of detecting are erupting all values of correre, n
to: i ology shoe crt oca A ture Galella continua aperto Mo 0 2uducd
durakhor or suitc is mouniad on mriaouable track pas or auttchgear tice times the ampacity of the conductor, a circuit breaket
units wher both of the folowing conditions apy with a rip setting of not more than six times the ampacity of
(11 Camorbe apes nls th cal is drome hc condaciore, al be come 1 proving te epic
{21 Were ail ofa parti arr stomatal dconnartal when Shc et preston.
the circuit boraker or switch is removed from the normal operating Informational Note: Sev Table 3L56MCHI) theomgh Table
position STEEN For sii of ohms ch GIN nd
{B) Fuses as Isolating Switch. Where fuses arc of the type that 35000 sula.
can be operaio as a disconnecting switch, a ct of uh loci Overeuerent devices shall confer to 28 40MA) and (61
Shall be pennitiod as the lat sel A ote To "
(©) Accel so Qualified Peroni One The isolati srtch cranes co]dorior shall est the seins of Aide
Shall be secant 10 quale peony de. Patti
©) Connection to Ground. Isolating switches shal be prove (B) Enclosed  Overcarrem Devices, The coricuon o
ded with a means for readily connecting the load side conduc: #0 percent of the rating for an enclosed osercurtent device for
tor 10 a grounding cere icin, equipment ground comimanas Ka shall nor apply 10 mR devices
et oe grumo 4) Sis ven AREA fron validi mena operating at re 1000 sol
PP 985.400 Surge Amesters. Surge artosters installed in acord:
mean for grunting the bad side coduciors 10 a ance wth. Sopa of Part an Uo Arie 24
counding choc od ict, oquipimeni grounding busbar, oF shall be permiicd on cach ungeounded mechead service
Frou snaetural el halos be required foi ans doh conto i
cute olan wich led and maa by the chee ee va FE
apply company ANT e le det me
TSE NATL BECTON ALCO roi
Copy REP Forert ue use on NEDA Fee Access pa No! ru sn non ens
Fone cor Soe own 70 portera dea ue £6 SSA


--- PAGINA SUCCESSIVA ---

265.410 Service Equipmen — General Service coupe. Tab 2405 Other Arles
including instrument anorectal condor 9 Pat 16
ie ti py poy
285.411 Swinger, Suichgeas shall const of a subanial Tri ig ot rc pr
metal Siete and a sheet metal ncn. Wore installed element
cera combustibile ione, suitable pratertion dierato shall be Alianti 2
provide A canis sa
Addii privi. pica an on
5412 Over $5000 Vols Where he voltage excels ip pny i
85,000 sais betncen condor: that enter 3 Baking: fr Bri ar 20
shall terminate a sitchgrar compartinent of HUE esr due
Contorming ta the copies of 190 through 150 AR bo pe
Gs thie csv las | n
et rane cin an
joy
Ercan hee AO
ing primati cis
ARTICLE 240 Cran and iis. Go
Overcurrent Protection Ea ea ie hig io
i Elcaris welders 60
rainy pa
n Eee, Aste dia. csolainro meningi br
Pan. General walks wheelchair ls. asd waiter
200.1 Scope, Fare 1 through VII of this artide provide he Shari
genteal cope ms for TUE protection ah ver Ege tions I"
Pont proteetite devices not more than 1900 volte nominal, Fire san asic 3
Fari CI cover cecarens protection fof shes organs of Firepompe pd
speeded industrial Installation operating at soba of ha Fe ced heuibenimen for Ed
ote tan 1000 volts, nei fries
than 1000 rok. nal Fined clecuic spmec-heating equipment 424
format Sete Ko Orton psc cmos: FRS ma dear enim so a
mens poni pen be Se econ rein cquioneni
jessie donb tvir Gomme
TE a Ea Th So bie pid
obo on far hea xmens pi
fm] Sno. Se 1109 fur ems rie
focal sn
lap ing and i reazione For pride
Ni pia are dna aim dad ang EY
1403 Reconitoned Equipment finan
(I coining No Prine Toe olin cqipmens J onto jd
Bere feo Brocco i
(3) Equipment providing gromdtails protection of equip Roca è
mn Fong 5 i re
@ Croata circuit ineerupters Sem i
(9 Linaoliage choker and isoage nanenciabl Shy Shred oc
6 polare age Tieucrs aun area sfila picture 20
cae crane brcalers ms a i
5 Lon aoltage power Stent meshes cbcronic pune, pein 0 aa vo
® Recontiioning Perma. The tolloning equipment shall Yo compan bi
be periodo be tecondilon Ri
1 mola powcr ccank breahere fed in 310.1, unless oh - ca
in 30,41, unless bernie permis or equi in
Eom ois roe and canon me $3010 et CÒ
femal Noe See ICEL 5232018 Shor Cri Chr
Reconditioncd equipment shall be listed as coconditioned cts of Imebiat Cob. Ft fue ce duale shirt
an compl sith BERR td dpr an met aL
230,5 Other Arcs, Equipment all be protected again (A) Power Loss Hamad. Conductor ceria protection shall
Oseieuneni in accordance wi dhe acc In di Coll Bini nol be enna Where the imemipiion 0 8 Sr Mok
Foner pe of equipment speci in Table 2103. ats hamid sich de in a material handling negati rank
De an tex. ove pump rai. Shock protection stati be provided
Bio cons fel ame and Bure ce, al be protoeisti orn Note: Sce FEA 20.201, Sanford fo de logo
Ses tenon n accordance wi (hi apace speck orafSntwaro op for For Pn
om [Ep —
Sommer NEPA Foren a use co NEPA Fre fess fr No! ra tin con cus rs
Roeser


--- PAGINA SUCCESSIVA ---

AKTIGLE 210 — OVERCURRENT PROTECTION was
®) Overcurremi Devices Rated 800 Amperes or Less The b. Branchicuitcated fases are lied and marked foc
next Highs standard overurtoni devi can {above the ine wih 11 AWG: copper la aluminum conduc,
anpackv of the conduciors being protected) dil be pr 5
tO be ise, pr 28 of the fling conditionr are me #1446 Copper. 1 amperes
(1) The conductaes being protected are not partof a branch (5) 12 AWG Alumimian and CopperCiad Amman. 15

circu app mote than one tecepiatk for cord and.  amperes
plug connected portable lace. sr. 2 arperes
{2 The ampaces of the conductors docs notcorrespand with ©) 1 AWG Copper, 2 amp
ie aac ampere ig of a fe Ora circ breaker (N 10 AWG Alumimn and Gopperlad Aluminium 2
it oscena tip ATEN above ts at (hat amperes
rl be pm io arc other tap or SK 10 ANO Copper, amp
(8) The next higher sandard ating sclociod docs not exeted (E) Tap Conductors. Tap conduciors shall be permite to be
00 amperes. protected against avercuttent in accor dance with the following:
it the averurteni protective device isan adjastable tipdevi (1) 21919(C) and (D), Hourchold Ranges and Cooking
ccinstalicd by accordance wih 210811), (8) (2), and 5) Appliances and Other Lode
(8), lt shall be pennitic to be sci to a vabe thal does not (2) ZWD), Fatate Wire
tec the next higher sander tale above he ampacity of (3) 2102Î, Loan in Creat
the conduc beng protect ar sown in Table SO6(V (1) M1708), Reduction in pact Sic Buway
here coined aecces in accordance wth 210 6(C) is prov 5) BRITO). Fecderor Branch Circuits (usar tape)
ed 8) 1058) Single botox Tape
©) Ovemueran Devices Rated over 800 Amperes. Where the (F) Transformer Secondary Conductors. Single phase (other
vcxcurmont device ix alcoves #00 amperes, the ampacity of than vic) and multiphae othe than deta delta, Sace)
the conutors lt process hak be equal to cr gecaite han tht ganmonner secondary contusions shall not be considera 10
rating of the avercurteniderico dean in 2406, pe protette by the primary oserautrent protective doce
© Sma Condactore Clee spats promod in (en baie a donne SA Se omni o a
240 ME) oc (CI. he overauttoni preci shall not exesed {oe bavi a sie solage) soon ot
i oe phase, della delta connected rancor having a Suite
that oquied by ZIAD) (1) thraugh (D) 0) alter any core key gels comnecac mores ang » Sue
tim factors for ambien temperature and number of conduc. BC CULE protedtion provided on the primary Curls)
tore havc been applied la hi Lain
Pp sic of the Tantra, provided tis proteclon sin actor
1 18 AWG Copper, 7 amperes, provided all th following ance a1 1503 and dock not exceod the tale deter by
iti oper MPA pi ne ian comune apart by the
{11 Continuous koads do not exeecd 5.6 amperes. sevondary1o primary transformer voltage ratio,
(2) Overeuereni protection is prosided by one of the follow: (G) Ovescurren Protection for Specific Conductor Applica.
ing Sons Ovctcurtent precio fo the specie conduatorr shali
a srancheircuitmicd dreui rekers iso and Pe Permiod to be provided ar tefecenced in Table 210 AC)
marked fo ue with 18 AWG copper conductor (8) Dvelling Oni Service and Fender Conductors. Dll
b. Banc cious oo Iie) and marked fo uns eed ns conduciore shall po to de
with 18 AWG copper conductor protected against overcurtent a the aropaci sakes in 340.12
©. Clase Cl Chee OF Class), or hss T fas
240.5 Protection of Fiexibie Cords, Fiexibe Cables, and
@ 16 AWG Copper, 10 amperes, provided all the following Fiuture Wee. Flexible cord and fesible cable, including tieel
Conditionar mee cord and cation corde, a ature wis shall be posicetd
(1) Continuousloads do nat exceed # amperes. against overcurtont by ths 210 BA) or (8).
(2) Overannent protsetion is provider by one of he follow (A) spas. Flexible cord and Nexible cable shall be
ing: protec by an arereurent device in accordanee with theic
a Brnbeircuitatod creat realiers lined and Smpacitrar specie n Table 093A (1) and Tanks 10056)
fo use i 16 AAC copper Conductor @ Vian wie shall be procarod amis orcrauttoni la
b. Branco ore leo and marked foc uve accordance sith Us ampacit ar Spode in Table 028
with 16 At. copper conductor Supplementary WITCH protection, at covered in 240.10,
©. Clase Gt, Cas CF Clase] ox hss T fas hal be pe mato bean accepabie meant fo providing tis
(8) 14 AWG Copper-Ciad Atamiman, 10 amperes provided all Protection,
the following conditions are er (B) Branch. Creu Overurrem Device. Flexible cord shall be
Continous oat de not exceed amperes protecicd, where supplisd by a branch circuit, in accordance
hi i TBI). Fitto vice shal be protected. whe Supplied br a
Li branchcircuit, in accordance with 240.5 (8)(2).
a Brando ral breakers are lod and
market for ine sth 11 AWG copper.clad aluminum
conducior
[PP ELECMICAL CODE ois
Copy NEPA Fore we ue or NEPA Free Access stn Net fr B01 cou ur cranny
Far aa ono ae vietare “o mp APS use coma oS


--- PAGINA SUCCESSIVA ---

25 AKTIGLE 210 —OVERCURRENT PROTECTION

Tuble 240.466) Specific Conductor Applications 05 Standard Ampere Ratings.

—_— A Fer and FixeaTrip Cleat Bronte, The standard

Condbctor Amick Secon ampere catings for uses and inv time circuit breakers shal

Recondoningand 4, as i Be considered as shows in Table 210 6/3, dt) standard
retrigeraon wt ampere catings fo foes shall be 1, 3, 6, and 604. The ut of
pipe dr foste and mene time ciecut becakeer with onsandard
onus ampere ratings shall be pe mica

Capi chek 10 #0 AC) and
co]duciors i) 025 Tubte 24058) Standard Ampere Ratings for Fuses and

amram fey fii etm
imsmenaion i
Type 1G) — SesdedAmpereRaop 00

Bcatenclier craic 0 onsen w a w E wn
mucins » ° © LI pe

res se circuit 00 00.05, 0.15, 7% FI ® wn 10
mito Dio and iw Go om ow om

Chaper) 50 wo mm 50
Tae 1268) 0 wwe wow
nd 128) 1200 www Bw ww

Jr— 2, fanti on Bo om ”
appiancecrea =

a a: 4%, Pars, 8) Adjastable- Trip Circudh Breakers. The rating of adjusiable-
ove are Patt, ix cicuit brcakers having cxcenal mean fof adjusting the
ito i Cue Sing honghime prkup setig), no meting the

pp pi 7 Ea ZC), hl be tn maximum tig pr
minions i.

Remco ES TUT, (©) Local Restricied Access Adjastabl Trip Creu Breakers
Hpnaig, an pou 78340, and A circus becakec(s) that has esate access to the adiusting
i crank Capers, care shall be peomined 10 have an ampere ratng( that it
comics GNA) al 0 the wed curcon stung (ange. pickup

nan hing). Resiciatea accese shall be achieved by one of the

Secondary ic contuaws 150 sos folloring method:

Located behind remosable and sabbie cover ocr the

1) Sopply Cord of Linea Appliance or Luminaire, Where ating means

exible cord or tineel cord is approved foc and ied with a (2) Located bobind bole equipment cnclosure doors

posi kod appliance o luminaico, 1 thal be corsideted to (3) Located behind locked dows acces onl to qualiicd

EE proce whe appli within die appliance of laminate personnel

listing reguitemerts, For the putpose aot i section, a lumi: (1) Pasaverd protected, with passcerd accessible onl to

aie maybe cite portable or permanent quale personnel

care Wire, Fiture wit st miedo be a fond Not: Sex NFPA 730, Gale fr Preis Src,
to die biscuit of a branch Crea eh A STN Termin Pred Veoh any
re Sorin Foti tnsion moti sk

(3) Tor Hampers cats — IN WG, upto 19 m (hf) (D) Remotely Accemible Agfudabie Trip Circ Breakers. A

iii circuit breakeris) that can be adit comotly to modify the

@ Voor ampere ciscuits — 16 AWG, up to 30 m (100 fi) adiusting means shall be pormetod to hase an ampere ratings)

ising that ecu to the adic cures cing (ong: PRP

(9 Mamporecreuits — 1 AWG and biger setting), Remote accesi shall be achieved by one of the follow

(0 S0ampere crauite— 11 ANG and hoger ing cto

© Wampece cecuits — 12 AAC and hoger 3) Connected direct» through a local nonnetwockod inter

© Bb ampere ceauits — 12 MWC and beger face.

À " @ Connected through a networked interface complying

8) Extension Gord Set. Flexible cord used in lstod extension

cord sett shall be considered t0 be protected whon applied with one of tre folowing methods.

thin the extension cord het foquirements a. The cicuì bicakerand avociatod solovare for adjust:

«®) Fila amsembieà Esvemica Cord Seta Pesi cord vee dog the ngs ace died at being cobs Foe

in extension cord: made sth separately etc and incall] p. Ghee «the network is comple.

N esbersecutdty awcrsment of the network is compl
components shall be permitted to be supplied by a branch ted Documentation of the assessment and rtlica.

ciscuit in accordance withthe follinring: tion shall be manie avallable to those authoriscd 19
Mampere ceauits — 16 AMG and boget inspeet, operate, and mata th Em.

noi NSTONALELECTRAL CODE SEs

Copy NEPA or arse a NEPA Free Access pron No! or GB 10% Sou cnc cr gn
For tires Gort: SSE oncr “o (oro UT an 5 use COTE ESAS


--- PAGINA SUCCESSIVA ---

ARTICLE 210 — OVERCURRENT PROTECTION won
maton Note No. | See ANSUISA 8248. Soy J app
amino ino obo Sieve diei sE OC NS Siren donate
Ct at Cont tn Ghee, Sesion 240.13 Ground Fah Protection of Equipment. Ground-fauk

protection of couiprmeni hab prot in accordance ath
ft Sie n 2. Ets 1 om So om Em co or Bo
pctv etal in ins for roll prada we leer] eters of more han
ier vionn ST TE RL SERIE TL 2 fe
Ah The [SA Secures Compliance Institate (SCI conformi te main disconnecting means cat amperes of mere.
pistes This section shall nt apply to the lsconnecing means for
1 ER icy aml memniasd ted the fog
risers
SET rico for hepa at be 1 Uontinuons industrial process where a rardecl shut:
I tan ryan Tor he spedite ope and rat down il introduce actions! or increased hazards
@ teal sere ground ali protection lr prosided by
mato Note No. 3. Coeur è 4 pes Skt gallons abete grout poi
(Bat co a to kr oinate ese ric oonarainn ©) Fire pumps
Che or onan hon oie cm De grounded Conductors.
Sa porn Ste ok hale 1 on ance oso Cor
praia (A) Overeurtem Device Required. A fue ox an arcane
240.1 Listing Requiremen, The following sll be sc eh Uni und oman. A comin af a ten Lane
(1) ranch onercurteni proce devices fogne pia fe omuivalent d0
G5) Kehysana ctu broser providing gronda proce:  anomercurtoni wp unit
JR Teo intermpiocdesiccs rm neo Pata LION. ana i 505
2008 Fes or Circ Breakers in Paral, Fuses and scat oe
E) Cie Breaker as Overeue ren Device, Crit brealers
breakers shall be pei to be connected in paral where Co Byker x Oreo Derk, Ne ae da
they are factory assemblodin parallel and listed as a unit. Indi ny and amomrmiicaly anles otherwise permitted. in
hua fee. crei rca. 0 combinations iescof all no: MEO :
Sal tn cet rhe or THAI AND, (BO, and GB CIO
CD Mativire Branch Circle. Individual singipole cis
2409 Thermal Devices. Thr las and other devio not 12 Hits Bras Clee dal snglepole cient
designs to open thor Soar or ground Laks sal not De Pater Wh etd handle de, shal be permit the
inc tor re rian of onda again ee ES ala ha a epi oe
han eco a Tote. bu ve DE sich devices hn ep!
Shall be peti ia prone Ti branch cris sondactori
from orrload if protetto in accordance sh 150.19 @ Grounded SingiePhase Ahermting Curren Circ: In
on 10 count rns. lh Hol sing ie pole rent haber ied
240.10 Sopplemeniary Overcarreni Protect. Whore supple: 139/240 volsac, ih identica hare tes, shall be perratiod
(menta eet protection nud orton spel a the preci lor eat round coat To
components of equipment, it shall not be used as a substtute LT connoctod loads for singlophase circus
or topi Brahe ovescirreni devia o dn place of @) 3 Pine and 2Fbare Sytem. For lincaoline kos in &
the equi branch hr protedtion. Supplementaty vo wit, Sphase stars or bre phase snes, individual
rr sta de Mita Mento
20.1 Selective Goordination. I one o mac feeder overcue fed Bande ice shall be peemitted as the protection for cach
reni eto device ate roid to be sckectnely coordina: Leu conductor, il he mes have grounded neutra
ted with a senior mercurtent protective device by other PO tag togr
Capen Tn the Coda SE (cade were prbtcane (9 SWire DicrCumem Circ: Indisidual sigle pole
devices supplica deel by the scorice escent rokoahe  Siteuli beeakers abd 429/250 volts de wih nied bank
device sha selerincly coat wi the sender avec. ti shall be pen as (he protection for cach geod
Font proisetne deco, onder soln meet od be Sage, desti
240.12 Ortety Simon. Where an acdc shuidonn f+ TCT CEC supplied from a gem wth 3 grounded
required to minimize the hamdis) to personnel or quip: Be tog
Horta ovo coordinato Hed oh Dx folowing Mo 240.10 Imerapting _ Ratings. Branchcircil_ mercurtee
Foro shall e ported: proiccise en ll ave tes ag rating os than
(1) Coordinated short<iccut protection 000 amperes.
G5 toad nication based on monitoring yes oc dec
hal Pan i. Location
a aE pias 240.21 Location in Circuit Overcurrent protection, shall be
rtd cach gto cues voter anti shall Be
[OT —— Pr
Copa NEPA Foren use io NEPA Fre fess fr No! ra tin cou cur rng
a rE en,


--- PAGINA SUCCESSIVA ---

ren ARTICLE 240 — OVERCURRENT PROTECTION
Located at the point where the conductors receive thie supply (8) Tap Supping a Trand'ormer (Primary Pls Secondary
cscept as spellicd In 2I0ZIA) through 11) Conductor Not over 7.5m (28 A) Longl, Where the ap ondacior supply
Soph under 2I.2IA) Muough (10 shall not Suppl a zansiormerandeompl; Mihal the following conditions
iter comacor ence Grou an osercuteeni POLICE The eon ing the primat of a ran
, conductors suppbing th primacy of a transormce
desice meting the requirements of 240.4 have an ampacity at lcast onc-thicd the rating of the ver:
{A} Branch-Circuit Conductors. Branch-crcuit tap conductors current device protecting the feeder conductors.
mecting ihe coquicements specified in 210 19 sel be perm. (2) The conductors supplied by the secondary of he tane
ho base rerun: protection as pectic in 2102, coc stall hae an ampacty that ic not ks than the
dio bay P poctied in 2 alse of the peimany to secondary vohiage ratio multiplied
{B) Feeder Taps, Conductors shall be pennittod to be tapped. by oncthid of the rating of the evercurrent device
it oveicurteni protection ate op, 0 3 fee ae 1PSo Fenech thc condizione
fed in 218.281) through (8). The ap hal be perk. (ty Foe ioni Kg of one primary plus one secondary
te ai any point on the Ma side of the {oer nectar condor, cuddling any pret of he paimary cond.
roti device, Section 24408) shall no be pormitict for ir tt È prateetol al 15 speck, 1 mot once 78m
fapeondicioni Bio
ti The pracy and secondary condoctes ate protected
dì Tape Nor over 3 m (10 10 Long I the length af tx tap s
condutiore docs no cx Sm (1 and the tap corto frm physical damage by being endo in an approved
hoc nt exe arent or lx cee ppv Mean
comely wi e () The secondary eonductors terminate in a single cia
(1) The ampadity of the tap conductors sas folons breaker or set of fuses that limit the load current to not
a Not less than the combined calaulated loads on the morc than the condictar ampacity that is permitted by
circuits supplied by the tap conductors 10.01
b. Not lese than the rating of the cquipment containing. {4) Taps over 7.5 m (25 f) Long, Where the feeder is in a
an osccuent devicett) supplied b the tp Conde Li hoy manag biking osc LÌ m (8 1 bighat valle
tori or no les than dhe cali of dhe cue Leo complice wisi the foboning conditions
proce docs at he teminaton a the tap Condisone emt and pen an ensure tt
ny quali pron service the are,
Exception to br Wher fisted equipment, such as a amge-protactive 2) The tap conductors arc not over 75 m {25 E long hori-
a) (SDA, pd atta ep corso mini Toma nd not ave 3 IP) tora i
n
son rondine lr siting the ampaciti of the tap conducions supply (8) The ampactvofthe tap conductors is not ess than anc
ing that equipment shall be permitted 10 be determined base on the third the rating of the oscreurront device pratecting the
naga’ ti. feeder coho
0 The tap conductors emirate at a single dca resker
tn The tap conductors do not extend beyond the sche The tap nds temas at a sigle drt bree
Ba, Palmar. disconnecting means, or Sie ap conductors. The single cece con device shall
(8) Excopt at the point of connection to the feade, the tap be permitid to suppl any number of addsional ove
conductors are cnclosed in a raceway, which extends from. oy ont devices an ite Ù
Thea 10 ine ensure of an nck machboara. ©) The 3p conductors are protec from phvsal damage
switchgear, a pancihoard, or control devices, or to the Ting cocked in an ape i
back of an open switchboard. by Ted mean,
Foc Tl makin, he ip condos leave he) The ap conduct arc coins from ecko end and
enclosure oc vault in which the ap is made, the ampacky Sonn no splice i
i tte tap tons ote than onde of he) ThE tap concise sed 8 AMG copper ar 4 AMC
ig of te overciereni device protecting the fecder yy Fi ap conctucons do not pencirate wall foo, or cell
Jig
fmt oi: Ser 36 or mere preci (9) Th tapismade no kssilian 9 m 6410 from te oo
cembonern for pune 5) Outside Taps of Unlimited Length. Where the conductors
@ TapeNotomr 75 m (35) Long, Where the kmh of e are cd uid of a ing Se ive, rep ot e
tap conductors docs mat exceed 75 m {2 ft) and the tap point of load termination, and comply with all of the following
Conductor comply with he following: Condition:
(1) The ampadty of the tap conductors is not less than ono. (i) The tap conductors are protected from physical damage
red of the cating of the evercureent device protecting in an approved manner, ° i
She fede conductors tì The tap conductors termite at a single cca resker
tn The wp comfuctors ect in a single cca resher ee vo oc ina Eri ho lost io the pac
acs single set of fises hath te kad to the ampaciy cibo Hp conduzione, Tak single rear: devi shall
of the tap conductors, This device shall be peemitted to be permitted to supply any umber of additonal overcur-
Sappi ry number of kona overcuttent Aevieet on coni im on ite bad site.
bade ta tn The meranen deve fox the tap condctons in an tc
(3) The tap conductor. are protected from physical damage | part of a disconnecting means or shall be located
rr red Sb iE, alga of a decomnccing
approved man
az NOL Ltt. Sn
Copy REP For nce oor NEDA Fee Access po No! fr ars sn Gos cn eng
Foun co Soe own 70 portera dea ue LR SSM ATS


--- PAGINA SUCCESSIVA ---

ARTICLE 240 — OVERCURRENT PROTECTION ma
4) The disonnecting means for the tp conductors is caiingot the evercuerent device protocting the primary of
rake at a caddy accemible location comping vi he tansiormer,
one of the following: oformathind Ne: See 408% for seria neni protect
a Outside of buildingor suture cominci fut pancdbnri
te reac pons of orcas of the tap a Ina  condary Contactos Not over
sedan wi 2308 maroni te 5 mi 5 FD Long Behe pl of wchpes or Soh
Wore ated nada wih 208 earth 12%, 5 1 Lon, Fox he pel of chen of mach
pa P secondary conductors docs not exceed 75 m (25 E and
(© Transformer Secondary Conducta. A set of cochctors Complice nh allo the ng:
footing 3 single lod. o cach sc of conductors fecding pa. Conditions of maintenance and supenision ensure that
(oot 3 inte odo exh eof conduc [og RY ah) Gono of maintenance and superi ina
‘secondary, without ow current protection at the secondary, as 2 foi
pe i (2) Theampacky of the secondary conductor is not less than
Speed In TALC (1) Iheough (O). Section £1 4) aor orn
Sali not be permicd ramon secondary conductory, the seman sete ing of th talons nd the
fain] Noi: See $303 fur verte perceive Exceed te ampaciy of the secondary conductori
bomen or anc (3) Allovercurteni deversare grouped,

i i (1) The secondary onduaiori are protocied rom physical
dì Protection by Primary Ovemarren Device, Conductors pany nduciors are protesica fom physical
Copied dr lho i so al a Togs ons mage beng koa in an ppemed ny cb
hash a Se CGinglosoltage) socondary. o a dcop lig
dela dica connotati manos hang a Sue (ng (9 Outside Secondary Conductors. Where the eonduciore are
totage) secondary, shall be permicd 19 b protected by aver: located outside of a building or ARLES, except at te Point
cure protection provided on the primari (suppl) ade of of load mination. and comple wh allot the following condi
Th tran, provi is protcelon din accordance wk Hone i -

53 and docs not exceed the hic determina be mh ping iomduciore ace protected feo physical damage fn
es oa oor iO pat 1 The emir ac pric from phys damage
transionner oksge catia @ Th tacors terminate ara single circuit brcsket or 2
single phase thc than Zare) and uliphase (oth than single sci of usc that limit the oad to the ampacitr of
ae IA ee) damore conda dazio ae the Conductor This single overuse: device hall be
“onsidesct 10 be proieeter by the PATA ave eni Powe: period to supply any number of additional ove
the device. cent devices on it had side.
© Tacorercuneni device fo the conductors & an integral
@ Trundomer Secondary Conductor Not over § m (10 1) pari of a disconncalng means or shall be located Irn:
Long il he length of sccondary conductor her nor cxered Er ae ieri
Sm {10 ft) and comple wih all of the following: 0) The disonneaing means for the conducton I installa
(1) The ampackyf the secondary conductorr i sas low: at a teadiy acces A location compiring th onc af the
a Not less than the combined calaulated loads on the following:
citcuits supplica by the secondary conductors a Outside of a buikdingor structure
b. Koi lese than the ain of the equipment containing b. Inside, near the pini of rane of the conduc:
an aetcuereni Accs) supplica by the condaty on
oo or noi less ta i of oven. ©. Bere installed in accordance nh 2906, neacost the
Font proicelve device at he temainatlon of the secon Polti af enirance othe conductori
dary conductor. ©) Secondary Conductor from a Ferder Tapped Trans
Eucion, Whe ised equipment, uch as a uy ici former Tranatormer secondary Conduttore Mtl In a ear
SCA INNI wos wn sh ern on mina. ance oh ANZI (30) all be pee to have overeurrent
Tm Somer S57 he 5 0 Ca conten pty.  Protoetion as specif in that section
IE that equipment shall be pericied o br deteravinat bose on ihr (6) Secondary Conductors Not over 7,5 m (25 fl Long.
mafactu's ustrctons Where the bagi of secondary conductor docs not execcd
(2) The secondary conductors do not extend beyond the 78 m{25 ft) and complies withall of the following:
sitchboard. swichggar, panclboacd, disconnecting (1) The sccondare conductors shall have an ampacy tha Is
‘mean, or control devices they supp: not less than the value of the primarytosccondary volt
© The scondare conduciore are gnoscd in a cous 2g allo mak pls brone-ibied of Fang ol tc ener:
hich sha cage from the iramonner to he Elon current device preci he prizarsof the Tel Eo
of an encloscd vekchboacd, exch, a pancloscd, 0 (7) The seconde condos terminate in a single cork
control device sor to the hack of an open sichboard. breaker or set of fuscs that limit the load current to not
0 For Belt aalons were the secondari stor: more tha the eonduator ampacity tha Is pried by
(ve the enclosuce or aul in Whi the wap connce pth i
tion is made, the secondary conductors shall hate an (8) The sceondany conductors are protected from physic
ampadty tha È nor ksr thas the value of th prima: damage by being enclorca In an poner cy by
etary otage aio Muliplicd hy onctertà of the prot Bio PP: d
destin NATAL EECA GO zr
BT pT——
For euns Coa. Sears 70 rear AUTRE uve SOA SSA


--- PAGINA SUCCESSIVA ---

02 ARTICLE 10 — OVERCURKENT PROTECTION

(Dì Service Conductors, service conduciors shall be per: 10 be accesible only to thrid managemen: peronnel in

104 to be proteica by osescurteni devices tn accordance with he fol:

ZL, (1) Multiplocccupancy buildings

(E) Busy Tops. Busnars and busy aps shall be permiicd  @) Guest moms guest suites

to be preieated against orcreuereni in acordanoo NER FMT. (0) Branch. Oversees Protective. Devices Where

(E Motor Circuit Tops. Motorfecdr and brancheircuit | cloctie sevice and clecinal maliena nce akc provided by the

Connors shall be periaiiica to be protected aa oserei: bulding management and where these ate under Continuo

Cont tr accordance std THY and dB DA: poche building managerncnt speck. the branchcieait overcur

rest piccine Besos suppi ing any BIS rooms, gue Mies

16) Conductor from Generator Terminals, Conductor from or ice ping re 1 A Ion unit. Aiea: per ent provi

generator termale tt most the See Sere Ei MB 18 Son fot soon sali be period wn be cen oy 10

Salle permed 10 be proteetod agin ios by the autboniaed management pe el

generator vet provette dent) Faken by 448.1,

(© Not Expostd to Physical Damage. Overcurrent protecive

«Hi Battery Conductors Overeurrent proiselion shall be pone ll be locator Ghiere ie i 1 seep o pe

permed to be installo as Core as pracikable lo the morage ahem i i

Faby teominals In an unelasiicd location. batt of the

a e co ohne toma] Nek: See | LL for afin so decida

om prea don anco Uta cib Sue pila diaz

rounded Conductor. No queraueteni device ©) Not in Vicinby of Easily Ignitible Material, Overoucrent

Rae rende Corta No e thvic shall be cts devices shall not be located in the vicinity of cal

round ules nc of the ling two condlizionz (mes | PUI material, such ae in clothes cscs.

(1 The oxcrcument device pens al conductors of the (E) Not Located in Salbrooma, Overcurreni protecihe devi
Ge Tig the gos vier and Coy Dirt an apples veut: proton, tal
a pole circ ope ialepende nt Bot be ated in bathrooms. showering fadiiver, or ocker

Whore coquited by 13146 or 43037 for motor overload rooms with showering faciitics.
protection. {F) Not Located over Steps. Orcrcurront protedive devices

24024 Location nor on Premies all no: be Homie er epr of 3 stalrvar

(AI Accessibilin. Circuit bocakers and svtches containing

fasce shall be adi accessible and incall so that te center Pari HI Enciosures

of the grip of the pecans ak of the sith or CEE

Breaker hen In is ight position, & not moce than 20 mm 240.30 General

(57 in) above the las of woking platform ink oo of (ay Proention from Physical Damage, Oveccurrent devices

the following applies: shall be protected from physical damage by one of the follow.

(1 For busar, as proven SAIC in

C8 Fo plein overeuerent poison. as seid installation in cpl, cabinet, cut bones, oc

wn eouipment assembles

Force: rosea dees, decribed 82590 gy Mounting on apendipe swikchboacd, panelbeard, or

° rena i control ber tha att in cone or enclosures fece from

0) Forman proc doe af to wiliion Samp and easily ignkible material and are accessible
pment dia the ora to qualic personnel

(8) Operating Handie. The operating bande of a ccc

Esaption: Ty we of a tot shall be omit to sexs wore “rating Handle, The operaing bandh of 2 sical

rT Ra ok lr dr me eal ihal be pe To De ace bout ope

its Sto sos lsd cain or cons to

et agninsi environmental cob A ot ew Si the spe 240.92 Damp. or Wai Locations Enchsures fox avercurtent

os pi, and al out ras deviati iy ugh Ae indampor wet beation shall ply wh BYES

ebm 1 fut Sith ths tote open, ill orp) wih the a

Fs 240.38 Vertical Poskion, Enclosures for overcurrent devices
arensiolio prasbions ef 240 244) hall be mounted in a vertical position. Circuit breaker Sno:

(B) Occuparcy. Each occupant shal ace cca acess to all suees shall be pormitio 0 be installed boczontalie vere he

overcurrent devices pretccling the Coats supplving that circ fecaber ls inal in accordance oth 24AT. Liiod

occupano, unless ofbenise permited in TTA) and wera plugin unite shall be permittod to be mounted ia rien:
bara tallon: corresponding 10 he bas maT Position

Service and Feder Overouren Proteine Devices.

Where cicetric service and clecieical maintenance ae provided imconnecti i

by he building management and we tese are under PunY- Disconnectingand Guardlog

continuous building ampere nt pen, he evi over: 240,40 Disconnecting Means for Fuse, Cartridge fines In

Sinton proces devices and [ow overcurrent pooicgine Gronks of ans volge, art all fiscs In ccs vet 190 vaks 10

Aevices shpphing more han one occupancy hall be permited ground, shall be rer wit a disconneciing mea im on tt

Supply side so that cach circuit contalning oko can be Inde
fr NMTIONALELEGIAIAL CODE Sen
Copri NEPA Foren use oo NEPA Free Access gt Not dr ars 40% our GHG rng
For euns Coa. See ripa Sa BEST AUTRE ue SoA SSA


--- PAGINA SUCCESSIVA ---

ARTICLE 240 — OVERCURRENT PROTECTION mat
pendenily disconnectod (fom the source of powcr, A bk 3 bower ampere classification, They shall be designed that
fiir without a dconnceling means shall be portion the cant be used in ant fuscholder her than a Tope S ke
he supply side of the service disconneciing meansar perrmitiod  bokder ara fischolder wa a Type S adapter neers
by THRE A single disconnecting mean shall be pecmitiot on
the supply side of more than one set of fuses a permitted by 2905 Type S Fases, Adapiers, and Fasebolders.

4% 112. Eucepiion, for group operation of motors. 12AZACÌ To Fn Edison. Base Fasebolers. Type 5 adapers shall bi
{or act he space Bevin equipment, and 125. PCI for Beonio feet Pe è dp
Tie resistance and ocr Pea) process heating equi»
ment, a where special pemiticd clube in di Cad ® To Fn Type Fuses Only. Type usc hoor and adaprers
N Shall be designed tha ibe the sc holes isell or the oe
240.4 Arcing or Suddenly Moving Pari Accing er suddenly holder with Type 5 pies inserto canna: be use for any
moving parts ball com with 2441 (A) and (5) fasc aber than a Types se
4 Location Fires and circuit breakers shall be located oc C3 Nonremovabie, Type 5 adapiers shall be designed so that
shicldea m tha porns wl noi be PUT or GIVES Sore emt ade tt be ee
nen b their operation
pce bs thels ope {D) Nomamperable. Type 5 fuecs, fiecholders, and adapters
8) Suldeniy Moving Pars. Hands or levers of circuit break Shall he aid on poring of Sharing ACE)
ST, and a part (hat may move Sarl in such 3 sr ld he ih
hat persone in oc sicily are Bh to be feed by being
struck bythem, shall be guarded or solatod. (E) Lmerchangeatility. Dimensions of Tepe $ fuses, fuschold-
cr, and adapter tha be standatdiacd to poms inlerhangea-
bili regardlom of the manulacturer
Part V. Ping Fuses, Fosebolder, and Adapters
26050 General. Part VL Cartridge Fuses and Fosebolders
(A) bau Vonage, Ph tuscs shall be permitio 10 be 240.60 General
scan the following cc paola J
0) Circuits not cucceding 129 sos between conduciori a De. tani foes ad
2 Circe supplica sven having grounded neal [oh of te 30
point whet the We tamneual voltage Ao for scesa
os Clu pot excceding 0 sos between conductore
© Srglephae nets gous Sue supplica fom a
(B) baking, Each fuse, fuscholder, and adapter shal be Spas, duce, sll, grounded neutral source where
marked with its ampere rating. the lineto-neutral voltage docs not exceed 801 voks
(© Hexagon Configuntion, Plug asc of Ibampeit and (B) Nonimerchangrable — 06000 Ampere Cartridge Fine:
lower ating shal be dni by hexagonal conliguration of bolder. Fuse ole sali be designed o that € nl be dille
(he iow: cap, o IDE promineni part to AMER hem Cah do pula fue of any given chr mi a fascholder Hat dr
from Tascrof higher ampere ratings ign fos Con to oa gh lan Mat af tte
B) No Enegiaed Parts Plug uss faseholders, and adapucy Cla to which the fise belongs Pucholdor for curt:
e Pare Hog I RP liming feeb not pera Mrceton of fur thai rc no
adapier: have been insalled arerentlimitng.
C3 Maing. Fuses shall be lain mace cither by print
{E> Screw Shell. The screw shell of'aplugtvpe fuschokder shall ing. pi printing
8) Seca shell The onsbel ora plug ‘on the fuse barre or ya abe attached to he barrel honing
the folloving
240,51 Edison Base Fuses. W Amps ang
(A) Ciassification. Phg fuse of the Edsonbase nipe shall be (2) Yokage rang
chssifica at not over 128 volts and 30 amperes and below. ©) Interrupting cating whore other than 19,00 amperes
Garon ming where applicable
{B) Replacemem Only. Plug luscsof the Edson tasc type sal (5) The name or trademark of the manufacturer
be usci on for replacements in existing nstaltatione where
there is no ence af on Rw or (men; The interruptig cing shal noi be coquicoll 10 be marked
240.52 Edison Base Fosebolders. Fuscholdece of the Edison ig ”
Base type shall be tal onl where thes are dk to afra(D) Renewable Foes. Class 1 cartridge fic of the renewable
Rope orosei ie ne o adapiere ope shall be permitica to be seed ony for replacement In
Shing installations where these no evidence of vertuing
200.53 Type S Fase. Type Stuscs shall bof the pho type and Se tomer
shall compio wih 240 MA) and (8)
(E) Fase Reducers, Fuse coducers shall be td.
4 Giassification. Trp 5 fuscs shal be chs at not over i
125 vol and 10 15 amperes, 16.10 20 perch and dI to 240,61 Classification Carimidge fuses and fischolders shall be
priate laid according 10 volge and amperage ranges Fuses
© aie 1000 sos, nominale es sha he peated be wd
(B) Nonimerchangeable. Type 5 fuscs of an ampere classica. for vokagesat or below their ratings.
tion as poetica In 240 DNA) shall nol be intetelangeable sith
ses bn ANAL ECT CODE ram
Copp NEPA Foren use oo NEPA Free Access gt Not dr ars buo con GR Gr Gn
Far ours toria ae vietare “o mp APS use coma oS


--- PAGINA SUCCESSIVA ---

pr As i OVERCUMRENT PROTECTION
Fw verticali ib
frelon Merrit RE boss ppog Wma Ul Evie tee
oh ST ogre
(1 Docamenason. Docamntation shall be aallabie ose 403% Nemamperabie, ci. bak. shal be of such
flies ati ein Se tape a er rato
Brisk tlet rope di pn Ee (ai DI 105
Doarmentation shall also be provided to demonstrate that doves ‘or breaking of a seal for athe than intended adjust
te mena cineca del danse
Judit A 20033 Maki,
(5) Method 10 Reduce Claro Time, A fu shall hae a GAL Date ana Vil, cs ace shale marked hi
lik we atoms ming Ina mance Aia N to le
Ee Ane of e ei mete Hal be provide and ate oon url rg Sh be. ree oo
frye ata e raga orta Orme ola mer i
Jp ©) Luton Cie feces ca at 100 anpetos ols
Be eran sing i tas 5) fio Se fe ca an 10 amps fo
pry poigh vb otal bol Sad
(9 Encsgrmducing ——— joie]
FE cpa wih a
HE es J ———
@ An approved og ping Fai Xe ton 6000 armperes shall ave 1 Aker up
rp So No, È do com cing inert on e rai hes Te inerte
GN SS CE lng ha ele cd to be marked on Sct rhe
Bandas sy defined 11 NPA 20602, amd fr Fined wp p
De SL Sr I ct. cre tes a ss In
ERT Sn AIRING se Cro ete wed = aes
Cit Sa salle maiiea SUO e HD: CEE desi den
md Kote No. 2: cn iog ive thd chs dn WERT dechage Bghing cielo shall De
Som So Sot homme ht Jn Re de
Sl en oe de bei aa Vora anki Gent eds shall be cd wii a
oe a SN ee Sele aro mt oe han die oso voltage that
FIR Sonia dama SA Sti imo pion pelato
= podbot log iy
formal Kote No. 3 EE URNA, RIE Gu pr 20088 Applian. cic babe va a sight loge
Bet WES tae dpi 2 co bake» og olor
termining ring current in a Sect in which the nominal voltage between ar ivo
(© Peltormanze Toning, To ate cers con proce Sorgen Seed Benes bb hon da
{un open sa De mre Ione Di primary Goes DO pole trea bres sha no! be oh for peeing
Ee pen ey Sg Ci
Io on site. This testing shall be conducted by a quabied  bieakee x marked 16-56 fo indicate such stabi:
Persents) in accordance ih the manuftemyce'sntouctons. A circu breshee with a slash rating, such as 120/240 or
on cca os tesing sb made ad be SAUTE TC Come br api th sr
asilo o de bot amarico da cei vane e Taal SOS TE
" ground docs nei teen ont SI oy ila dl i
Conan is Some etti hm esi E or, cd love oe tro else of e
SE PRT atea a cor doti xt gh vale
as with the ue of fase teehobgs of became curren È wt the of the ciccuit breakers voltage rating.
[Rp —— a Ts asi
24080 Moho of Operon Circ brakes shal be mp ORS Series Rig, cre a cc ahr è wed on è
sa pred yaa pe Shoah Se EA Le ol Tan he
Toc ey mer apie rah an mana] coh mar ag by being come on bo
fret vir Sipe an appena Beil helo bi apthuetid
means (of manual operation arc abo provider O Higher rating. the citca breaker shall mec the requirements
2081 Indicating, Ciranit brcalers shall early indicare Po ETAT) or (6) and (4)
to palio (1) Seleciea Under Engioee ring Superdiaton in Ei ing asta.
Pe Po dona, The series ale sedis apmaleleryi be
md ears engines: svg poms in he
10180 savonesi cone —
Com RE rc vara ue NEDA Fre as attra of sr Go se ris
ine


--- PAGINA SUCCESSIVA ---

ARTICLE 290 — OVERCURRENT PROTECTION wo
design oc maintenance of electrical installation. The kin yi di sen No dhe in th ik Braker ox
SE be dame and amp profesional ngi: eR i PARE de, TA Tr nt
To a eo tiv hs Rao rman od iy oo Hk
This scrics combination rating, including identification of the par.
pram device, shall be fichi mack on dhe end cp. fet Rote No, 3: An acs «Gti
fis mate it cli in ip ho ei] iy

For cau applications, the enginece shall ensure that 1] faring ume wt ne te Pons ti oe
the dovosticarm circuit ICARCTE) hat ate part of the ics heute kerr he mn po tina
combination remain pareve nc the mtn pron of . i

ml Not 58: EEE USA EE Gente
ic line side fly sc. ect meg oi tral Noe No Si Se EEE Lith 2018 ARE oe fo

Soto Net: Se 1022 ein of cre sin: ivi ytinds

tion wae. {GC} Performance Testag, The arc energy reduction protec.
® Tenera Combinations. The combination of lineside over. ton asters hal be performance ccd by primary Garreni
Gue deve and made Sew breaker(®) dr 1d anti Ip KR or another appro method aber Br eel
marked on the en ine equipment, such ar sutchboards and led on site, The toning shall be conducted by a qualiicd
ponchos pers) accordano with th manufacturer sinstnutiiona

orm] Net: 1022 fo ein of cre sine A writen cor of thi eat shall be made and shall be
fishin cabo: tothe authority having con
©) Moro Gono. Series cating shall not be used in the ino Note: Some eng sion protestion sen
owing situation: San De Rn Ao 3 AE RS SE DTA Sue UN
(1) Whee motor ciscuts ace connected bevwoen the highec. 170% 0 STP prata dn aed fag damaged al
mica ovcrcucren de of a sme combination rsa neg fhe
and on the ner rte cat broker de
(5 Faces the mimi these motor ok cers exces 2400 Replecemem Tp Unita. Replacement trp uni shall
etna of he inemiping aig of tne Imes be Jace for use wih the cient bieaber pe in hich de
circuit breaker installed
20087 Are Energy Reduction. Where the highest continuous rail Note The epee ip anit be ied
cure wp crim for which the actual onere ten fee thd hed dlr unk ned ie
oad ct rake 8 med can be acc 150 Sa hpi lk bk
macros higher, 20 ATR). (8), and €) sali apply
(A) Docimemation, Documentation shall be salable to those Pan Vill Supervised Eodostral fnstalietione
Stora io design, Ia operate, or pec the IKEA 24090 Genera. Oretcieteni stot in atc of speed
3 to he location of the drcuit breakerto. Documentation ical ineiallatione shall compl wih all al the other app
shall also be provided io donate that the method SHOR cable provisions af thi article, exept 3 provided in Part VIT
© reduce clearing Um is set 10 operate at a value below inc pari Vili sha De pate 10 apply ol to hoe poche of
avalabl accing current the cleetieal sem dn the sapere al ieallation
(®) Method 10 Reduce Ciaring Tene, On of the following ted cxcrincly os manda a proces control ati
lpr ad 6 pT Hn 050 Peon Gana. Cc she proce
the abl arco ceere oh imacamnce with INDIA) or S91 (57
1) Zonsackeetise ingtlochi
@ Dial (A) General. Conduciors shall be prateeicd in acoordance
(5) Encrgywducig maintenance switching with cal satus Wkh 2404,
indicator (B) Devices Rated Over 800 amperes. Where the avercurment
(8) Brergeducig active are Mast mitigation sete. vic aod once ANO ape. the ampacky of (he conc
(5) An instantancous trip setting. Temporary adjusiment OF tore it protects shall be equal to or greater than % percent of
the inetantancous rp setting to achieve arc energy oi the aling of the osercufrent device in accordance wih the
tion shall no be perked fot:
6) An istantanea osertine
0 Mn ppd equialeni mae Oro ean anne

Shalom a at ts a rrr i e mil Nove: Tle 209251 prides tev orc

Teno delay” in rale Lhe arin lime a ik dhe worker diri curt fora to determine Rous for topper and

Jip get ua deine d mona

SEY BRR Swi fe Feet iy Nok and rin which the conductors teninate ss

he set hep ani beck ina nol setting af he pte AM oquiprent in hich the condi tied

WE hae mp and marked forthe application

orm Note No, 2 An cnet stive wth

rta ae edo da PCI aio duran de ee
San NON, ELECTRA CO in

or NPA ore a air NEPA Free Asin or cose cu rn
Fa Coo or Ace Tare aT SA SEAS


--- PAGINA SUCCESSIVA ---

mn ATIGLE 210 —OVERCURRENT PROTECTION
20092 Locuson in Circuh, An evcreutoni device shall be (2 The comucioni ae prose by a dillecential rly ith
olen each toad che ctor: eid dino anne Sui ok eb coo arp
per yitenitsy ES
A) Feeder and Bruch Circuit Gonducvors, Feder and frais] Ko SF deo ns
felincalfoic apy ion al dhe pol HE A fo Se pei
rd Co dall be protected ai dhe pain the rt mana cs aoe
otherwise ited in 2409208), (0), (DI. or (È). that deenengiee the preterted conduston if a shvreiriui
(©) Feeser Tops or fever aps pectic in 2020@), oT
on ICI Ino tap coor sim be porate (3 The codone shall be cond 10 be protested #
ana (SCA), he tap conda © conduiori sll be considero to be protect
cdl chan wi Tobe £40208) on made tuner ogee ero diet
©) Tranaformer Secondary Conductors of Separsily Deve in tha ac mater vom det wi pee te
E Trustormer Secondary Conducrors of Sepavcy Deru in i recon ne ve rnd Fo oe
me ery of bo at hot Slstortetast and gonotal condoni
avete ni reat dh co cion abete he cons es on be per
SHH. Er and rater Oreto Eredi, The, contri shat be prceed
(0) Shon iru and Groans Fa Protection, To conduc. following
tor Tol be chee om hs and Foros 1 The comduaors terminate in a single ncuron dis
ore by compl sing oe of the oi condilo Te eat tee
QI The kg he secondari torso ot exe (2 The sum of he. anc. Antes a; dhe Socios
Toe igh of the someon evr dos ot exceed Eemianion is he od 40 ot oro spay
ed noi ed Tacoresturton desk ll cont of wo mors Bane
Be Fe Emig Cral beckon di lasci mee ap enh
120 pees of he la determina ts mliplig the nina Boop of epic eet or oc os
a at no, iia or erchar Taste le more ta
amico deck itl inanvone location
3 Gean rin orb hs coon ane
Tomer rata) lo re ah of the vary
Ab 14925) Tap Conductor Sor iris Core Ra Com corte and he bond o ie copter
Tw ings ‘ampacity by opening upstream or downstream desices,
e — n —————— E ot ob al erie
rs Cpa e Bi Tot Fagagna na
sesto Corey Conduzione from veo condition
0 Sot ot Cop Contin 5) Pica Provection. Toe secondary conduciori ace pre
Fae on me 15» i 5 2300 tra tram he dane being ero wr approved
Shred mabe sian ota Tt ent
where: CFA = DIES og, IF + 22807 (Fs BENI (D) Ouside Feeder Taps. Outside conductors shall be permit.
I eke amperes ica 10 De app to a ede of 0 he Sorted at è mt
de ros cen in amperct Horr eco, hs econ proven oo ap E
= ime of hon circu in seconds (For mes less fan or equal to connection, where all the following conditions are met:
Dents 1 The conductor ate proses from phat damage in
nomi actor tempere —— era mam
Da canteen pes epee feb ca Th of he ert des at the condor
bation ct etic ret Eran Limit he adn the corer angi
fa ores tom desi ll const of wo rors Bane
Copper omer oi eas dain 7 130 Choi becker dl lasci mee a ingl enh
fy iach or vatche at Taste le no mare Tina
ae cm Fac up onion aE eA mono sing
Sua costar paper, aiar, arog er enya point al had non.
ion ion cu Foe oeitanoni dele re vio ant
ri Cota ere psn + 130 Te onan mane os bor ame dieta
i [ER —
Jr PT — Feats dS a
po) owing
J —
Doe matt to eo of ance of the conc
Copri EPA Free ce NEPA Free Aes dat Na! or rat into Sou cao xs
Far Paura a ET a i ees


--- PAGINA SUCCESSIVA ---

ARTICLE 242— OVERVOLTAGE PROTECTION pr
©. Where nelle in accordance with 2308, nearest the 242.8 Shas Circa Current Rati, The SPD shall be racked
poito entrance of the SoS sth a cha cul current rating ad sali not be rll at a
in on the aston where the avalable aul cores 1 in
(E) Protection by Primary Overcurres Device, Conductors £0 Chl caling, This aking require ment shall not app
Spplict by the secondlar elo ean shall be penna. oat rating. This marking ey hall not appl
tod to be protected by avercurcent protection provided on the PI
macs Fupply) side of th Iramformer. provided Ihe primary 2429 fndicating, An SPD shall provide indication that it is
Bie lime tuiteni protection dia aticcinic, multipli by the Ginctionng propery i
maximum cltecive PRIA 4o2ccondary tanslorimer voltage i
20212 Osea Nor Fermin An SPD device shall not be
oll protects second Sanaa datata Os, Non Pei
(11 Circuits over inno volts
(2 On ungrounded asters, impedance grounded tes
pico della rien nie fms pic
ARTICLE 262 for we an hese stema
(9) Where the caing of the SPD is ox tha the maxima
Overvoltage Protection omnis phawio ground voltage at th power
foquenes arabica ite point of application
an i Geren 24218 Type 1 SPDs Type 1 5p shall be nstallod in accocd
Fant. General ance wh FAZI S/N and CE).
maton ences, and coon rime fof (A) aston Tipe § Hs shall be penniticd ro be cone
ovcrokage protection. and vervolage protediso devices, {oi naccordance wichone of the following:
Fact Il covers mug protec device (309) pennanently (1) To tho suppl side of the scevice disconnect as permitiod
alld on promi: Wing meme of mot more than inzs0uzta)
ook. moran, hil Fan Il cover: Sage Scher pea.) As pected In £0211
ren inealed on prembes wing SRT ACE PN Solis, ipy yt Service. then tlle at sevice, Tape 1 5x
Shall be connceied oan of he following:
2422 Recondiuioned Equipment. SPDx and suge aoe (ur € ca
shall not be coconditioned, ao
12) Grounding eketrode conductor
262.5 Other Artie, Equipment hall be protectod agains (9) Grounding clotod for the service
overvolage in accordance wath the artide in this Cate that (1) Equipment grounding tecminal in the service equipment
emer the type of equipment or location specibod in Tbk 349 14 Type 9 SPD, Type 2 SPDsshall be installed in accord
2425 ance wh SAN Through (C1.
(A) Service Supplied Bling or Structure, Type 2 SPL shall
Pan ll, Surge-Proveaive Devices (SPDe), 1000 olwor Less bo connect amwhere on the load side of a service dsconneet
2426 Living. AnSPOstalibe a lived device, Soda nozioni les ee fn
(B) Feder Supplied Builuiog or Sucre, Type 2 SPDs shall
be connected at the building or EET hers on the ad
able 2623 Other Aries Sd of the fot he UA device al 1h bulding or FTN
© separati Derived Syne. The SPD shall be connected
Taipei per on the ad side of the tin avert ent device in a separately
Class [incatians E dered system.
Gia Urea an 242.16 Type 3 SPDs. pc 3 SPUS shall be permed to be
Commies amenna television and catia - installog on th load side of branch Sct octcurrent prote
nrinsion se tion up lo the equipment era IE included n the MARAE
rica operations poser seis oe turer's instructions, the Type 3 SPD connection shall be a
eran eatin, oca, nog Ey minimum In m (3 (0 of conductar distance from the service
ake plore is aid sions ris or separately disc em AE conc
[ated on 24248 Type 4 and Other Comp Type SPDs. Type 4
Equipmen aver N00 rata, maminal pi er Component Type SPD.
ond pr Compan avemblicy and ait component wpe PLS shall
arl machiners pi only be italica by the equipment manufacturer
norman tedindogy equipment hd 242.20 Number Required. Where used at a point on a circuit,
Modular data emers sa 12500 shall be connect Lo each ngs ried conc
Dodoo manasa M00 sas 390
Radio and amin apn, no 26292 Location. Dx shall be promiicd to be locator
Recepiacles-card cannes. and pi indoor ar autre and shall be made accessible to uguali.
keh ph cap tic per anes Istedfor installation ceeds aye.
Wind cea sven on
destin ANAL CODE 10188
Copri NEPA Fore use ue or NEPA Free Access stn Net fr stru 1 cou giare ar ang
Far aa ono ae vietare “o mo APS use coma oR


--- PAGINA SUCCESSIVA ---

ma ARTICLE 12 OVERVOLTAGE PROTECTION
20224 Rowing of Contactor. Toe conductors wed lo 2448 Rowing of Sarge Arese Equipment Gronading
omnes ine SV la tt I or bs and ground shall mt be Condariore The conto we comic te rg any
Sy long: an ceva and shall vo necessa es 15 Mine, bu, or Spent and 10 an pent Fost
20220 Gono Sum SPO Une coors and mcs SOA HOU Cade conati POLI Ge
to ground shall notbe salle than MH AWG copper or IZ WG eet £1220 shall not i
San
2029 Connection Bence Condusore An SP shall be 212,50 Connection, The arc salle contd to ane of
perimitted to be connected between ary fw conductors — Li
Crone stators, gromicd condition, cquipmoni (1) Grounded service concn
grandi sonducior oF veg drat coder The) Grodin cece condicio
Frodo conducior and ite equipioeni pring condurto: (9) Grounding ceode for the spice
“hall be interconnected only by the normal operation of the (1) Equipment grounding termimlin the service equipment
SPD during a surge. 242.52 Surge-Arvesier Conductors. The conductor between.
20252 Grong. lcd Contr Connon snd HE age See ATA UNE Dir, a st re ad
Eaclosures. Except as indicated in this article, SPD grounding growing connection, shall not be smaller than 6 AWG
connections shal be made as specified in Artide 288, Part [iT copper or aluminum.
Crone etre conduciori alle in metal idontes ne © ee peeing +
shall comply th 250.64E) mes a econ distibuio smn oh
recone pe 4210. 5. LC
Pan HI. Surge Arrestera, Over 1900 Volts A} Meu {nerconnections. A metal intesconnection shall be
220 Gres Not Perminea, A supe sconce shall vot be TUE EO BAT SL Te La adi
led wher the ming of ht age res js ha he SCE cheat ground de conduct: I, in =
ama comin pha toroid voltage a we pover Unto he dt grounding comceion at dhe ms arc,
frequency avaiable at ne point of application” po te pio vl ZE PANI ox 0008
2024 Surge Act Rating, Too duty ode catingof age Aon] Grounding Gonneeion The ond cond
arcosier stall be nor less than 125 percent of the maximum em aba
fyi fet Sot Siotiipe In ehe
Caiman operati wage salable at the point of apple: amar Te ATO XC pip em (neha
tion. connections on the neutral conductor and not fewer than fouc
For soll god seme, the maximum contimous Hoch coECION in ath mik of rl coho, ihe metal
ap eT he Tomah SoM ercomcon shall be permitica 10 be made o he secon
psi dare eal coher i orton af the des Soto
ios ge aes
For impedance or ungrounded systems, the maximum © 5
continuou operating sokags shall be fhe phase o-phae sob @) Muhigrounded Nevtral System Connection. The grounded
pai pais nto te es eo ged
mad Nek So. Se EEE CORLL, Svoboda Tf SED Br prime pe
Sa so Bs Coo os foe Soci or sale wit bs al least out cmon cones
rT SE rt Cal Li ls ro mata ani
Sarge Armies fo Aliernatorg Cariet Spies, fer Farther foie connection at cach service.
[eo ®) Through Spark Gap or Device, here he sce arses
toformatiinil Sete Nec 2: The sebecun of a properly rater grownding clocrode conductar ix not connecicd as in
Ee pel da Al ATTA MZBMAI of whee th scary & nok grouniea de la
home Ie wep ata ZEA) bull alcove grand in 2902 an crc
TERE RL RE RY ll made toh pak of ind Been ae
fa ote fag hos sh ne end bo DAI HY or ET
ES he mandati ret hi kr
avo TRE er LETS  Ungrounded or Uniprounted Primary Sytem. Foc
fis tote a gro wieh primary so sack gap oc
0204 ember Reis, Wort poi an cc, SUM ANTE Mal re at sh of & hk
24204 Number Requires, Where data point ona cent, ESLER GE voliage ons Tha oC tima
age ac 194, and there shall be at least one other ground on the
Conductor A single halon of much sucge atten all be 10 kV, and there shall be at least ane os ground on the
permatiolio patita mabe honk em ho Ed we of he, secondary that i vt oo
Frnt expand to ge hs disconnoetod fon he Auge 0
22.06 Locuon cg scones sl be pcr to be bc lund Newt Primary Syme, Foc lio,
tod oars ar auicyor Surge atc shall be made inacces. Gase a ANI ako of por mare Lian S EV, re here shal
he pron ho TA fo ton vB Hb of st es BAN ihre ot
accessible cations. secondary that Is noi less than 8 m (20 £1) distant rom tte
rare grouvdig clecirode
an Sanna eLeGIAL CODE Aretina
Copia i NEPA Foren a use co NEPA Fre fess fr No! dr ansi tin con cus rs
Eon os he aero “0 rear men 1 a RRS


--- PAGINA SUCCESSIVA ---

TCL 1 —OVERCUARENT PROTECTION FORSISTEMS RATED OVER IMI NOLISAG ISMOVOLTS DE 28520
(© By Sp Perin, An comeing Nemapiae. A ceti breakee cali have a permanere and
2p Sprit armi 30 erncon of espe Re 3 cro e salve rns 2
sre Brand ds conta wel cour othr gtk ano hog pane: oc exe
125 Orman Else Gnsor Gomer wg) FT TRAE ok id Woda
Enciumen Except ae ndicaicd in thie atch, geome CL a cei breakeralleeting is atingie) shall be accompa
grounding cleetrode conductor connections shall be made as Ppp: a Pi
peed nil 2m Foc fa X Cong ce (0) Pa dem rane
ET Toe nino cn mg dla cil eke ot
ARTICLE 245 is Sd jo ope od
Overcurrent Protection for Systems Rated 9 The Eg os crete tl ot ek
Over 1000 Volts ac, 1500 Volts de the ciccui breaker can be closed.
Te porary cing oa cro tear dat oo be
da Sep. Toe ac me comin pocorn pie
1 Some The anh ot TROT on BOSE tcc brent
en Ti acd mod og of cd
dna enticement, 5 Bes op Cre ts pt le i tor
TL es Te ty ER dine
folico Poni Fort mera Peo
(1) Medinm- and high-voliage drauit breakers (1) Use, Where fuses ace used to protect conductors and
Bo I en wn CO FC leo dee do pont on a
formers tor Two poner [uses shall be permitted to be weed in parallel to
et toupee Frm, sm oi pr bd pet
® Recongions Equipment No Perms sin DUS ne mss beni cag and
oe a
pe Frei a BT I eT re
in Senise question dat duale are cw pet
batt oo toring Devices ope emf dh oie ope ln be wo fers
(A) Circuit Breakers. ue
i €® Inermpang Ruing Tae —
pw. 2 lop Raley Toe MiA Steg of pos
fa) Giccut breakers installod indoors shall be mounted required to interrupt, including contributions from all connec-
ctbes in mealencintnd uns or Arorovisani cobmounid FEQuISd o Inter up, including
‘units, or they shall be permitted to be sper mated in loca: Li
tl ort li pr tele oe ing The sim, shag cing of prs
Ee DAR ico ng Te sin hag rain of prc
eroi St Brae print obi inten alo be ne ren i hg Be
STi tert bd oe ie [ET a
a © gol cicli te lhe aed re 0 pmo of Foe Moning and Fae Co Fine
tn rn ei one CO Meni of Fo Mondo ad For Ut, AE
ogy foe nie tebe pra rd bye
et i ne ms oo oe ete famo pin he dt sha
in act mechan ie ered (3s fe fo od fg np tot
© EL bedded
9 SE 0 a ce corsa ant ic whore
© eo ls Spt oc och tl CC, Patol digo lc
I tai ope £9, mold, Fein fale drigdor ited»
cu A mechanical portion Indcatoc ai the deli brakes to Mehta ppicd peemanen an egble sign, in accordance win
De race Rs lg, gi scogli da
on SE FIA O O o e e a e aa e
the breaker at the point(s) from which they may be oper. DANGER — DISCONNECT CIRCUIT BEFORE REPLACING
ated FUSES.


--- PAGINA SUCCESSIVA ---

245.21 ARTICLE 245 — OVERCURRENT PROTECTION FOR SYSTEMS RATED OVER 1000 VOLTS AC. 100 VOLTS DE
Esption: Fes and fueholder arcignadto pit fuse eplocoment by (5) Voltage Rating, The maximum voltage rating of ibid
quoliial prison using Hod equipment 0A dr EAN he uous shall not be lese thar the asm eet coke
Jed sh bo pried (4) Fru Closing Rating ibid cutouts shall have 3 Giuli
(7) High Voltage Fuses. Switchgcac and sutton thot ine ching alg not less ian the maxima asammetccal fault
higirsoltage fasce shall be povided with 3 gangoperatod ume tha dan occur at the cutout location, unless stab
ditconnoeting switch. Isolation of the lusce form the Gicult  intorocks o operating procedure proche the possibilit; af
Shall be proved by cilber connecting a svilch betwen ihe Ching into Bl © i Fo
soutce and he lc or providing rollout sich and ore 7p I
Coneructon. The atch shall be of the had.imicrupice pe, (9) [denifcaion, GiLilled cous shall have a permanent
{nes mechanical; of Searle etlodot oth 3 hk 21 eghle nameplate hing he od continue ure.
internupting device cca cod the foal to the ine, Sk MAA voliage, and caled nterruptig current
cuping capahilat the rich (6) Fase Links, Fisc links shall have a permanent and legible
Erin: Move thom one match shall rite a he disconnre ang identiBeation shonin the rate continuous cur
enni for on et of res wer (ches arr (AOU to pride (3) Location Cuiouts shall be located so that they are cadi
conneviton o mov one set of supp condaciori, The suitehr soli and th accom for {ung with the top of the cota
chica co wisely SURAT to premi access to tha kone LO Ta ToC) alone the Ie or plot
ny when al tic ave ope, A compicuons sign so be poe af
ot Br ek dan one Soa (8) Enclose. suitable barriere oc endosuces shall be provi
os doi i) i ded 10 prevent conact wih nomshielded cab or energie
© Distribution Gatowse and Fase Links — Expation Type. peloton
(1) Instalimion. Cutouts shall be located so that they may be (E) Load averrupiem. LoscHimecupie ches shall be
eal and micly operated and refused, and so that hc pcrmated if sukable fees or ciel cakes arc used in
‘xb ol the uses docs not endanger persons Distribution canjanciion with these devices to inierrupt arailable fault
cutouts shall not be used indoors, underground, or in metal cameni, Where Bere devices are used in combiation, dr
Erclosuces shall be coordinated clctocalls so hat ths ill salele wit
@ Operation. Where fused cutouts ate not suable to inte. an the offcts af closing, arming or creping all poss
cupi the ckcuit mamialy while caring fal lod, an approved PE GREENE up lo the assignevd rma xem, shortelcat cling:
mans shall balled out the ence lad UNKSS the Where more thanonc switch is installed with interconnec ed
imo cutouts are interlocked wily the avitch to prevent oper: Lot teemiale to provide for altemate connection lo deren
ing of the cutouts under load. a conspiarous sign shall be supply conductor, cach atch shall be provided wal a vare
placed at such eutouts identifving that they shall not be oper. ug sgh ero he persons of more than ane sone.
St under load E3ch warning signor label shall comply wih 11021
3) Imermpting Rating The ntercupihg cating of disibi (1) Comtimons Carrem Rating The continuous auecent
lion Coton shall nor be less than the vb fauli carent rating of Ive mpi ches shall equal or cagecd the rank
the cutout is coed to interrupt, including contributions mum continuous current at the point of installation
rom ab connected soureezof nergy a i .
@ von maximum voltage rating of ince.
(0) Vonage Rating, The maximum soage rating of cutouts upter che hdl cqual oc Ace the ANT Seu So
shall nor be ko thar the maximum ict volge. pa
(5) Iaentification. Datribution cutouts shall have on her (8) [dentificaion, Intecupter aches shall have a permanent
bot, door, or fuse tube a permanent and legible nameplatc oc and iegiole nameplate, induding he following informatore
identisaation showing he manifacinrecs pC or designation manufacturers pe or dedigimtion, continuous utent are,
continuous current rating, maxima slag Fag. and NEC [nce ping current rating. bauli closing eating, maximum soll
cuping cating age cag
(©) Fuse Links, Fisc links shall have a permanent and kok (4) Swen of Comduaore The sviching mechanism shall
identistation showing Continues cure rating and pC be amano be operate roma Intation shore the operator
racmre Moumed Ouidoors ighi of cutows it not exposed to encagacd parts and shall be aranged to
Fibre bea A open all lngrouded conductors al the circu Simaliaconsi?
mounted outdoor: on suctates shall provide ale clearance 3
Benen kovest energised parts (open or core position) and viti one operation. Sich shall be arranged to be locked in
standing surtaces, inaecordance wid 110.34E) the open position Metalendoscd swiches shall be operable
(B OR Filed Curone (5) Stored Energy for Opening. The stoccbancrgy operator
(1) Cominuons Gurren Rating The continuo current shall be permitica to be lt nthe unchanged position alter the
tog of Gila coon shall nec be ee han the maimum switch hat been corea if a single mosement of the operating
contiruouseurrentihtough he eta Randie charger the operato andopensibe ich.
(2) Imerrapting Rating. The ntcrcupiing catig of oililed (©) Supply Terminals. The supply teemimls of lus inter
Cutouts thal no be lee than the available fault cucrent the ik cuptor cho shall be installed at the top of the sch enclo-
ied cutout ix comuiced to nt eupt, inching comtributione ute rf the te milk a located ckevbere, de equipment
from ab connect sourcesof energy shall have baie Inttalica to prevent persons from ace
am NAGAR CODE Suzi Litio
Coat NEPA For ent ve use or NEPA Free Access psn No! fr ai Eno" ou Gian ar pnt
Far aa toria ae vietare To mp APS use coma ORE


--- PAGINA SUCCESSIVA ---

encrgizcd parts. ARTICLE 250

24526 Feeders and Branch Circuits. ‘Grounding and Bonding

ere nc a ten -

grounded conductor located at the point where the conduc. PANE ©

and time-curcent mordination SRE of The protective dev

Cos ail ine conducior darage cune Toe rere po) SET dct and cquiprnt copied, pe

tien shall be permitted to be provided by cher 2801848) of (5) Creat conductor to be grounded on grounded systems

we 3 Locationof grounding conncctions

dì Overmurrem Rebys and Carrem Transformers Cirark 8 Types and sacs of grounding and bonding conductors

breakers used for overcurrent protection of 3 phase citcuits and clocrades

current why clements for protective fonctions) shall be ate permittod to be substituted for grounding.

permitted io be part of a single electronic protective relay unit Informaliinal Nos: See oformalenal Note Figure 20.1 for

the cesd al tut of the current mandomers shall be peat and binding regi cen

1B) Prosective Devices. The protective device(s) shall he capa "7 ban x Gowan a

occur at thei location in excess bi thee tripacting oF melting over 1000 vati

=

RE [e—

(ande short iets conn. Far Eon

245.27 Additonal Requirements For Feeders. "sto

tn re om a rp i i

4 fsb fon Pope DT | E

Eat Cn pe

element iin; of a breaker or the minimum Ip setting of ah 0

phe ie NN

695.108) (2). somecions

Ft tr cr 2 tre dal de

en ER EEE
neces 11. Gg


--- PAGINA SUCCESSIVA ---

04 ARTICLE 350 _ GROUNDING AND BONDING:
2504 General Requiremene for Grounding and Bonding. ment. or forming part of such cquipracni, sali be connected
Te oto gona teguitomenes ent al roentgen do e supply Sem, rowel equipment in a
bg o decal cm are ccoulted to ans mance hat ea a potas. path for From iank
The preseripiive methods contained in this article shall be GUTOR: hat ls capable of carrying the maximura Bank current
ote to crap i the perioomance seguitemen of ie Dh to be apres an
eon (9 Boning of Eieciricaliy Conducive Materials and Other
A) Grounded Sys. [A emdiolvmpe ereptetiriadyihond
1 Beri Sym Oroundng, tsi wc dh a BCE Sd Shall be commend ges and io de
growed shat be conned to can in a mance that vil TA FE for ground faul current at ST,
iit the voltage mpoved bs ga, aurget. ar wien. — aming FE CE be pose on
imal contact ili AACE soe Mes and ai wi Sabre
the voltage to cart during normal operation. (9) Path For Faun Caen. Electrical eouproent, icing, and
i i Pe Sher clectiall conductise material Rick 10 bocome ener:
mad ote Ne poo Foe adi ther chciicall: conde material Nick to becom cee
IRR RA pes ld ns Te dt os
in Ete SE ate da SE Mmpedance cnet rom ans point on the wing ters 10 dhe
HENTAI REL, E wp nese nn
Sma ao he oe a ok mmoecomaty Fee devices huh a second ground (ak from a diliereni
fatR Ay psc ec on de Ming Shem. The act al net be
mb Ne N 2 See STE TORY rnd fo HT SE lh BE cur path
ri Ses eo on EE 2306 Obiaionable Ore.
at stot Ig waco
fons A) Atrangemen 10. Prevem Obfectonabe_ Caren, The
@ Grounding of Electrical Equipment formale non Bon ago 3 OME ESRC Bren Ct
Erga dua men ele herald FE mt par ent dal
ye ne, EL CE ll parere ee
on there miccia
i ici Equi ®) Alteraons 10 Stop Objectionable Gren. Ul the use af
(8) Bonding of Electrical Equipment. Normally nonmcurrert.  Matuple grandine o Delonas Cute fe vot
Camin conductse materia ehclorig cleat stor 06 CE the rogue men PR A BI
oc couipmen, a forming part of uch equipment shall be gi are met one or more of the following alterarione shall he
Connected vogellct and do dhe ceci me gad oe
manner that etablisher an clic aise ground fault current path. P°
(3 Discontinue one oc more bat not all of such grounding
9) Boning of Eieciricaliy Conducive Materials and Ger Crbonding connection
Equipner. Normal non Curette camvng banali colic.) Change Ue cationi of the grounding or bonding
ota at Nel feo meng be io
connect ogee and to dhe CELL supply source In a pubreupt the continuity of the cavducior or conductive
ant at bch an Hert ground farli Garroni ph. a ren
1 Breve. GroungFe Gun Pu Eleeteni coup (11 Sale other enc and sppeone action.
ent and eng and other realy Coos Mati (©) Gums Nor Ciusifr mi Objeaionabie Gurren
Tie to become caetgisca sha bald In a manner ihat eg Fedra ott oth CI
creates a owimpedane circuit faeibiaing the operation af de fauls, and from current resulting from required Fern
icici dees of pound deco (6 Impedance OU 1 bondug conneuons shall noi be cdo Shion
ded pcm. shall be capable of lcs carrying de Mam ble cu ren for the purposes specifica in ZAC) and (8)
rook feet ed io be impose on lit rom ant pont © -
Eo TE Coo emai Avion Toe ect dal
Be Fe
supply ous Tho cas ba pred ona emo bank reo ok ate no comnts
Nato an cop grounding conducior = epee by ii
® Ongroundeasymems. REA Ap pr ce
i a Em data aa Mee squipincni bal noi be considered
0) Grounang Electrical Equipment, Noncurent-armying qui
Cove materiali clog cleetacal ovdadon o equi: 180 objelionable suena nhs section
en or fig pari of cpap, bali Be conico (E) Taio, of Objecionable Die Grea from Cathodic
to cath in a manner that vali mt the vollage impose by Feueaion Symes I roam of obpationabl fred
lightning or bnistentonal contact wi higher voltage 1s cones (roma cathodic protection tera ls euirad, a listed
animi he volge to ground on et matet ak rr device sal be pried In The equipment promi
oe Sen NEPA 202020. Salani fe tert COMO Pal 8 iii at cis rela patti fo ae
bea SE See mn pon lee Pit io
ET Se nate
@ Boning of Elecricl Equipment, Nonuricnicarmying
Foros eels echo cleetacal oddio ep
prem [EE p—
Sommer NEPA Foren a use co NEPA Fre fess fr No! ra tin con cus rs
Roeser


--- PAGINA SUCCESSIVA ---

ARTICLE 259 — GROUNDING AND BONDING: mon
250.8 Connection of Grounding and Bonding Eggipmen 6) toe sem is phase, toute, delta connected in mich
re Mete E eo fx poni ol one phase wk ed 5 ele
grandine Seco coat and bond ng Jumper tall he
Sonneeroti by ane or more of the following mean Lebo Si: Sc NFPA 02021. Sent fo led
Jv pressure conneciora No SS Be ti Ta aa
() simp ett lari
Fees enmneciori Ise as grounding and bondig (© AheroatingOurvem Syms of over 1000 Vale
fly fifetient ovigs iofoto
Jc weldig procor umori sali be groaned (n amsmidanco vith 230 4A. E
(5) Vin eens utents hat coe noi less fan op other Ths Tato posal equipriont, such
en atcor at cored wih spi EE hall be parted 10 be gro
co Finito noie pe isin rs pene ctu: go
cn Connections that are pa af alte as crib Siem shall be grounded in accordance wis 29036 oc
@ Ober lisicd means 250387, applicable
i 250.21 Aberin Caren Symes of 50 Vos 10 1000 Volte
®) Methods Nat Permined. Connection devices or Bunge ;
that depend okt on sok shall hot be used Non Required 19 Be Grounded.
i ca) General. The folinving ae ssc of 50 sols io 1000 voli
250.10 Protection of Ground Camps and Eating, Ground 4 ta of 30 ol ;
Clamps or other luthgs exposcd tn physical damage shall bo Hoo be Period to be grounded but shall not be comic to
endoscd in metal, wood, or cquisalent protective covering. Sh \ red exclusive + industrial
1 cial stems wed xcs 10 supply asic
25042 Clean Stes Sone cotte (cn ao STIS} TH i xd o pls ini
pali, aac ane ehatael) on couipmeni be ground of clei fue eed
Fonda smalibe cemosea te GON LL or ic one used cudusieby fer coctifire
corto annue hema continui 0 Sah De connecial by vsapph ork adhe on ma Ares
ora ie dei io male much sem danese. gy) PRO qui abotablospeot dal dere ai
bale apeiani velate ating oF 00 ols oc less if all be
tl poe Grow Wrist ares
Pan fl. Syrem Gr i a The system i used exclusively for control drcuits.
2020 ering Caren Spe 10 Be Gomes È. Tuc conditione of malate manco and supertinion
imams mene shall be romeo dn aetordae Cure (hat on, quae persons ce ih Uvala:
st BO SLA), (8). Co (DI, ae promi home fis
Tn the Code, Ore ters sali be pmi bs rowed. ©. Continui ofcontrol power 5 coquisea
I such systcms are grounded, they shall comply with the appli (1) Other systems that are not required to be grounded in
cable prinisione at srs eo aaie oi 80208)
mad Note No cxf peri tr (BI Ground Deectors Ground detectors shall be nid in
e mae ao tac tania del Vama one round Dasa, Goon
” 8) Ungrounded ac sisters as permitted in 25023003)
ma Note No 2 Scr ALLE, 7.0, 470, G1 basi] x riers 3 pemied in BRL)
CN ART tera CA) EI) operati att bn 12 sole ada
Hremadeti the stem.
(N aheramingOurren Spuma of Lom Tun 0 Yaw. To geo doceion wi equipment shall be
cag cuttoni er of ess than 50 sol shall be an Toms SE TT en
profit ibe olim ag condition eo li supp
©) 15 supplicà by rac, if the atoms supply (C) Marking, Ungroundea stes shall be loi magica
sptem exceoda 190 volts tO ground tt TE eden tem operating SO vole
@ 1 Suppl by ravines ¥ the anfore: supply Bowron Condaiori® at ie uct or Ths dbconnacine
Ser grou raeanrol te tem. The ming tall of aliens dub
Foe Se Seta conductore Jitters
® Ahermating Carr Symes of 50 Vols 10 100 Vox. 25024 Grounding of Serve Supplied Ahemating Curren
Altcinating Soot ere of 3 ols 10 3007 volts that sols Syme
premises weg and promis ing sy were shall be grounzied i i
rev ano okra cons (A) Sytem Grounding Connections, pres wig stor
ph by a proud tie shall have a groan de
1 Fin ior can be ground so that ine maximum soli. Epc ba grade cer sal bse a grounding loc
a5 in ground on de ungrounded condcion do not ai cach Secs, In accordare Mila BOTAN) rough
2) (the system is S phase, Huice, wie conneced inwhich CHEN
He medina conduttori ec as a cieli conda cio QU General, The grounding ccd condutior connection
Sali be made ai aa Seale poli Loro de load anti ot de
meat rico conduiore, seco drop, underground ero
vestire SIUSA ECTIGAL CON pres
Copri EPA Force ce NEPA Free Access att No: or rat 1 Goes xs
RE eC ments


--- PAGINA SUCCESSIVA ---

20 ARTICLE 250 — GROUNDING AND BONDING:

ice onductor, or service latta to the terminal or bus to install in accordance ath 2502HC) (1) and 25024DI)

hich the graded src condurior i connected at he wv. theough (3 1)

fe disconnecting means. Eucrption: if avo or more service disconnectivg means ave docard in a
mab Sic: See Arik 10 fo deus el Svs Sng ory Jr sh Be <r equipment, sha de prime
eve Sr omit, dani nona Bri ates th ped costo to Sar ots omen pounded
and Sevens Lana conductors) terminal or bus. The avemidy shall inctude a main bont-

2) Outdoor Transformer. Ii the transformer supplying the 16 jumper for connecting the oanded conductor's) to the assalti

ee Tale ca the Buin, at ak ont al WUT

rounding connection hall be made eam ie grouded er: (1 Seto for a Ste Racevay or Cae, The growed

ie conductor to a growsding cloctrode, chr at the TaN conductor shall nor be smaller than specifica in Table

former che: Bo bg pray

Ea dil grand sods outer omen (3 Conquer: Connected in Fare in Two or More Face:

hl be ms lnc A. Tnpedice STUY. yor Canis She GEIR) TREC So

on lt 0 ye LIO or 87 410 Lo contd pu In tuo DE more mena 0

atte cables, the rounded conductors shallalso be insta Bled in cach

OE Services, Far series dal arc dim] (ed (double ued Rar) in cad ivy or cable ol mt

et Mou. be smaller than VO NAC anal sod In accordance wih

mos ot ation th po He SOHO Be) a (DH in accordance mi SS

Fog ei Con od pt EN toe a mss ct

tt) Main Bondiag Jumper as Wire or Basbar, If the main) Shah be bad on th sum af thecal milareato!

bonding Jumper SpP2dBod in 29028 ia ir ox shar and i the largest ungraumaed condudiore from cach set connected Ta

Tm Sl men a lpn np

the equipment grounding teat bar x bus in th service

tg Theol oven al be Boman Sc See 0G) for rima car

permitted fo be connected 0 the equipment grounding termi. cnaected in para

Tel bar, ox bus 10 which te main boing Jumper come. Delta Connecied Service, The grounded conduc of 3

f= phate, Ste dela ee shall bac an amp noi ti

{B) Load Side Grounding Connections, A grounded conduc. that af the ungrounded conductors.

tor shall not be connect fo nonmally MCAT (8) Impedance Grounded Servic. The impedance grounding

metal parts of qc. 10 equipment rong COAT, condi an Impedance From ritor sal be conn

ore a be cecuniceted o ground on load sile of the AN accordance ni ZON For SAINT oe applicable

oe diconiecing means rp ores pie 0 a ote

fess Topsy Rk cde gronda

fab Noe See 5030 Ftc deed wins, conduogs the cng equprent Gncloniner, ai. If The
HARE SUSIE I genes, he compen mde ane ft
EI nh nt GTR Cont Fo ne) Foie bf Part of the art Toe
Ink canipmen. conductor shall be sized in accordance with 250.68.

© Min Bonding Jumper For a grand SSE an ance grande em connections shall b made in

wispiced main bonding Jarpee shall be used to conneci the Impedance gated stem connections sh

equipment grounding conductor) and the serviec-disconncet PP

Cb 10 the grouacd conduetor ihn he endosuate or (F) Ungeoundd System Grounding Gannestions. premises

Co service disconiieet In accordance th 50 ring Som tht © supplica an ac service that ls gro

ded sali base, i cachi ir, frog SoA co

Epi So. 1 J mo hon ow src diete means 5 0h. connected to the grounding cdearode(s) tequiced be
nn for e as omc squirt, an angina MI ol iis artele. The oa ea od onion hak

mat fon jump shall boul rand condicio) do tte i concciod toa metal ac of sh cre ago at

asm encour. any accessible point from the load end of the averhead service

Hsapion Na 2 Imrie sanded sms shall be pied be OMO, ch dec, ocr] KT sondudtori, of

Cont indent wi 5036 and 250 187 service ira to he eros Anemia

© Grounds Contactor Brongn 10 Servic Equipmen. It 250.25 Grounding of Sens Permitted 10 Be Connected on

prem di N ob 08 eri ph di any Supp Side Sf te Service Dimonnect To grand of

pina. the ground conor sali be Muto wi tte SHE Comic on the suppl ide of the service deconite

gue conduc ach sre disconnecting means In accordano oth 2800. atari ches separate (ors

and simil be canoe lo cach coconhe cng meanagiounded the service equipment entlosare hall Compl Mt SOLAN)

conduetortsi terminal or bus, A main bonding lumper shall of (6)

Comet he pod condos cach ae net

ing meane chdosace The Faun conductors shal be 4) Sroumied ymem. 1 dr bey ppl yom rand

10310 NLC CODE aes emana

Coty Fore vane use NEPA Fre Acar Noi fr it tion cose cu rn
Fa Coo or Ace Tare ATE Sr, SEAS


--- PAGINA SUCCESSIVA ---

ATL 0 CROUNDINCAND BONDE won
lief the evden ane se Ln or $5030 Growing Separmety Dee Anemia Cor
deci parole A eget Bt pon Bg rey i
os oe A rs Sm e mp AIN e arnie
fù 9 ri 0 PO o NE fo grind
OE TR go eo

; mn arp, lie pes re oe
ungraded, tbe rounding of hts pennitted ob como that supplics premiscs wiring shal be treated as a single scpa-
ted'on the supply side of the service diconncct and acc insalate derived sem and shall be installed in accordance wih
[Rl Cl i an SO I
ee bao ot
Br ena en dace i sgh
25040 Connor 10 Be Grom — anermaing Carte ht Bt, A en Tif
friggin yon ogre RSE A a
San ee ong TIE ne Sod em pnd te eile 4nd
PAA i See rs lc beg to nd
© Sogiphare Sue uc li Sk Th poet e ren
FY ee ce NR eh

pe pa WA
cn Re — had Se al he dn
59 hae ems in ich on pss i sin (2) 1 route Sutera, A sepamicly die ae stem tht ie
Ship men Jeep A
25028 Main Bonding Jumper and Sysiem Bonding Jumper. basi ola thes a permea in hie amie: a rounded
for a gr an Mal nly Top at en yr dal ot fe cowed to mall rr
Pd op ko a oko cami meal par of cupric, be urd meine
Qu Manera Sat bonding jatipere a sc bondig Fad pen bok ro
Jumper shall be of copper, aluminum, mpperclad alumina, J TL rr dl separate
‘oc other cormoric pant material. À man bonding Jumper of mma, ro
JE er Toe | A pee fe Ee]
pr Ly
[ror
(® Conmcton La mali boncing upc ar bos. Ee 7 granita is ting om
a ee ae ves i
rec neh that shall be visible with the sce installed. 1) Spam Bonding Jumper, An unspliccd sem bonding.
i es (0) oo
(©) Atachment. Main bonding jumpers and sistem bonding tion shall be made at any single point on the separately der od
Eo Aro es omen pallid sary sue poison he par deed
2504 that is sukabl for the material of the témding jumper or evcrcuccent desice, or it shal be made at the sure of a
andenclosure. scparately derived stem that has no disconnecting means of
bein eps aes biog pps sw BSB i
Btn. sin boning mpc sem bong papero LST TE edn ln BACH) Ae
gal De sed TN accordance wh Ben gh SED Te em naps hal en i
po ie rE Le ion a pae
(0 Gone. i bonding eo ad pes bonding i BE ES suppl a i dng ines
frien Retsil Sh tee,
a Exception No. 1: for systems instal in cordance with 4808, a
© Mn Boing Jumper for Service vil More Tian One Sagl et Patio como A te
[typ Sih ea ie oi e o a a a da
peppy a
FETED te mn EBA SUR upon do, 21 ttn or avatar spy ajo fo
on the largest ungrounded service conductor ming that #1 Ouidoor sepwaily drive sytem, a sive boing Jumper of both
BY Le a ot i
et ms A et E
5 Seperate vei More hen One Bacino. dalai aio pela pal or dt nai conti a
fichier hp O e E ae a pele ort
ea ey pt RL A n E honk pod
fe de ir, bog mec fo Sona ll be bn odi contin bpp f 0
a a) be ME ea
ed ee TE a do onto
ng em ag es LS RES UE ES go No 3 Test of em soning ung br a ge
Shon sie of e args tappi conductor decomincd by the 10 sugli a Cass 1 Clas è or Gas 3 he, nis dried fou
BI TRATES en we te Cm oe 1ta n da
i ln i rt mpg ti
A me ce er


--- PAGINA SUCCESSIVA ---

25040 ARTICLE 259 GROUNDING AND BONDING:
(lit at th Sure The sister boning jumper for the separately dtd sytem. If located auidoors, the
sallconncct th gr sondacio rio the App bond: roger halo sree anes eh S030)
ing Jumper and the normalk: mncurtenearving Metal Encl
ing Espo: a separata; tort ser onginates in equipment ht
0) totalled at ite Fax Disconnrcang Means The swe dis and idontifind as suitable for use vice equipment, the
bonding jumper shall connect the grounded conductor to the BPG bide ws for the service ov fir equiped shall be
supPhaide bonding Jumper. the disconnecting means enclo. Pitt tobe wea as the grounding lived for te operas) deriord
Mure, and the equipment grounding conductor(a). en
fm Ste i. See TL0KOY for in ive
Excpaon: Spas did ms cossing of makihe sores
ei vs air ome ar va sta be bed to nasy het ei metal ve pio i he atea serie bry
i ver ening pompe al at the pring igen
er ens foe mo om fmt Noe No 2 See 25050 a 2038 for rapire.
ih, on th paring comet pi LL En i
Aiba
Supply Si Bondiag Jumper. I the sour of a spacacls
wieder cotta men at ha) © ® Grounding Elearode Conductor, Single cpanel Dive
scpatate enclosutes, a suppleside bonding Jumper si Sytem, A grounding clctrode comudor for a single sc;
penis Tae bor lp e nT TR MET
ro the Sem diseonnecing means clone. A sph sd bond. © Ue derived ungrounded conductors It shall be used to
ing Jumper shalt not bo eg to be larger than he detivod Connect he grounded conductor af the dened system 0 the
ungrounded conductor. The suppleside bonding jumper shall Browsing clocrode in accordano: with ZINA. or ax
gone uct. Toe rapire bondage call J, Sa GANCI) amt COC, Ta connection shall
be Periti ob of non Eas at the sane polti on he separate derive er
or
en al pe cote
(n A supplsside bonding Jumper of the vice pe hal
Compie vit 250 102). bascd on the ie of the dined £xption No. I [Fe svt bond ing jumper spi in 2303044)
pod conduzione 41) a ro ab, 4 shi dr reg font goanding
«A appia bonding umper of the bus type shall have a AY conto to the oguiprirni rounding rina, dar. or bus f
crossiccuonal arca no! salle than a Supe bond: Dr «quiet grounding termina, dar, or bus i of cient sic for
ing Jumper of the wire type a determined 90 I2C). the spamunti ded dem,
Expt: A upp side boning gum shall not br que brinven EXPN No. 2: 1 the suey of a separ dred emis bcd
tots for iataliotioni ds in shave DE SO SANT, iin equipment sted and sensed os suiabie for wi as sere
Legion So 2 ning ts ot Pon e eee fe
ment to 5 pont se hl mid the oot
to Comma Conc, I grand cto ld oF in te ri gt
oo oar, Er condi) foro eps dred ya, 0 gun
The oc TSANG) rough I) hl ap re com of icin fo rh od
The ated comeior dall mi be ose 10 be Boge Soni pian spon ig ess coun tp
te dee ground OE 1 ae dred unt, Gann ccs rein for n pe
a5 Sag pra Sugli inca. The groumdod conducior oi rot st ld br mail 101 dal
shall not be smaller than specified in Table 250. HVAC) (1). i ka lS pelted br rade to the in
omens Coot stl oo ie con Exlon No. J: A puunding Aids candudos ht vot be red
ar Cri ged candaciori are connected imparai for d eten na 004 Gioni 1, Cle, or Cae cit nd da
oor more arenas bln Ue oud sonuzioni  dnirk pon a (mgm 1004 ot more tan 1000 wham,
shall also be nstaled in ach racers of cable and shall be Provided (he @oundet condor is bonded t0 he transfonmey fome or
connected in parallel. The size of the growsded conductoris) hese by a jum per send in avian with 250. SHAK 1, Furep-
iN och ccc or cable shall be based on fo bet ted i No. ad fe pane or crs on n one
wngrowsded conductor in cach raceway or able, or the sum of of the means speriied in 250.1 34.
frei ipod sh A a
Conc fromesth  onetoa i pase och any) Grouming El Conduaor, Multiple Separnety
able accordance vt 230 SUAS bui not ort Devs Siem A common grouting clecrode conductoe
abla 2 or kp separato de eT a bo promod. È
2 naked ine cormon grounding mod roti haf be
mind otc: Sec 50.04) fo mr sudan ed to Connect the giovedi codton of ach separatciy
psalm dee spor to dhe grounding cletttode 32 speci dA
mat sym, Tue rounded sondorioraf a EPONA og Sheu cio lap sah he
spose, guire dell rc Aen emporio yb all {sem cach parc dived, em te the
pte ws dell ro sl Coramon grouming iccirode coor. Each lap condaciai
Shall connect the ground conduca of the separatsle
(dì imprime Crandd Sint. The mpedance ground. PA E ’
ing qi man tn he res grow od to th amine srg sod cordiera
ing conduit of an impedance grounded scm, shall be Thin connection shall be mate ai the tare point on the tepar
vce with 250.350 = applicable ick derived system where the ssc bonding Jumper i
® Grountiog Electrode, The building or strucure ground: connected
ing electrode system shall be uscd as the grounding CCX gain No. 1 the suina donding jane spi in 2503068)
{Il ma ror bada € hl te pero to omer ite goanding
ia [Ep
Sommer NEPA Foren a use co NEPA Fre fess fr No! ra tin con cus rs
Far Paura Ey ees,


--- PAGINA SUCCESSIVA ---

ARTICLE 259 — GROUNDING AND BONDING mon
evo cotton i in te quinn ging termina, bm or (8) Cngrounded Syms. The cqipment of an ungrounded
Ce, pte gunn Grounding ot, ba or bus 50] 4 Scparatdly derivcd mem shall be groundod and bonded as
Cotto tte press dnd 3 nein 200 0831) teengh SIC)

Scion No. 2: A graamdimg Ane condor shall not te td (1) Grounding Elecwrode Gondor. grounding clcezode
Jot i dai iis a Can 1. io 2 Ch chr mi fe contacto. Shed in aemmedante sil 5088 for ine largest
[onus pom a roe mad ot mare item 000 rangers,  Accived ungrounded Satori or ct of decked wagton
red tr oon conto od gms ded moor shall be io conoci the ol Ene
frame o els by a pater od tron. mah 250 WANT, oo eT matera to dle EAI Tole specie in
erp Se), att A ri ee at
re meted S150 ai al an pi on dle sepatately coca met fo th
nce, tothe Fiv tes ncn g means. the onc de
Ercopiion Xo. J: If th sure of a separati} dvd stem is dorate located cuts the building or structure supplied, a ground
i tment 1d and A 06 ld fo no sore SE egos ce pple a ground
ova hontai oh te od She
omen 10 04 mein Ade ll br pid an the ind
ie ms consudo for dhe parati dertd rum, he omit: 2) Grounding Eleetrode. Except perminod by 20034 for
ot othe f vente oh pets ied pra and Sch aE erator The ng che
pen 1 squipment ing os rd 01 ur em oot shall soaps i £5050 1
mal ha te rgd Grounding dwiiods oufuctor 7 0 4B (5) Bonding Path and Conductor, A supplyide bonding
amd ed occas ev oe (8 Rend De uao wd, uh bmg
itv eel eit d adr made oro du same bli | parle;
ie arm np tlle Bl 0 RL common rh nem to ine At disconnecting means in comipliance
Seong eens coat ob perminedto bean IZ ANZ)
the following 6) Oudoor Source. If the source of the separately derived
(A conductor of the wie pe not smaller than 3/0 WG stom & located outside the building or structure supplicd, a
oe Stamm hoch mating ceto comection a de Mad eed
@ A metal water pipe inaccordance with Z508AGCI0) cain to onc oc more groundig cloctrodes in accordano
8) Mur metal sizione ai the bhi or sire in MIA 5037 tn addition, the ilps shall be in accordance
ee nner iy ok omen o dhe Mi 2503MN) fof pronto stem or ai 2805081 for
grounding cleerode stom by a conductor not smaller ungrounded sso.
Frans ANG Coppe dr £30 KE shen. A
: rT ————
(Tap Conductor Ser Each tap conductor shall be sized pio: Ti ountingdectnl conto: concia or impeto
in attrdante pi DITA bars oli the rd maid El rks with 250.6 o 250167,
ahora ol these parate dere aEit or
gioni (ax Di and 01: dr on dos dar pros am 3032 Bung or Src Suppl by a Fee) or
ate pes in 250. 66IAÎ, (DI, 01 de 4 of tte commit ring 3
Toros donor sh nor è mguind tor A Te bg OA) Grounding Electrode Sem and Grounding Elecrade
Conductor moka 13 280 0064) (8 or (6) for Tm ope f rds Cones AS DRANG) Tacs pg) ba
ren omen os branch crit) shall hve oun clock ode
em and ning dete condicio installo nase
© comecions. AL tap comers to ioe common nant Boing cero
grounding elcetrode conductor shall be made at an accessibile ri Fact Ul of Article 250
focation byonc of the olka hoe Exon: A aunding Aine sim. aul gounding dtr
1) A connector lied as grounding and bonding equipment “Ott shall not be quid if only a single branch cid, acli.
PT @ multe ranch Cond, Supplies tor suiting or sia um and
smaller than € mm thick x 5 mm wide (% in. thick x 2 in. the branch circuit includes an equipment prounding conductor for
adc) and af a length to accommodate the number of | Finding he Normally non<cuneatcan Ying metal parts of equipment
mination: necomary fo the patton. I shim (5 Gromded Symes.
reat usci oe lon al also b hace - -
ance a SN MA) Li Sopplied by a Feder or Brunch Circuit. An couiprment
(3) Tec oxen woking process growing condutioe as denied in B01. shall De ton
Fat the Supply otic and be comes 0 the bulding
Tap conductors shall be connecicd to the common ground. oc smicure dkconnccting means and to the grounding cl.
ing cheerode conductor in such a manner that the common trede(s). The equipment growing conductor shall be used
grounding electrode conductor remains without a splice of for grounding ox banding of equipment, statuto, ar frames
Joint ied to be grounded or bonded The equipment ground
@) Insialiation. The installation of all grounding elccwode ing conductor shall be sized in accordanee with 280422. Ang
© : Ean groumed conduc dali eb nec tà he
Conductor shall compl ak 280640, (683, (C1 and (E), 5
© nome ha se on pe Sipe grouding conductor oc to the rounding ec
, steciaral sil and metal piping a abs
Connected he prod conductor of ‘arcs derive
connected fo the grounded conductor of scp Exton No. 1s fo installation made in conpliene with rvs
ì Lio ti Got ai pitt neh convection, he Edt
Conductor i hts i bp do th Eo tr dali de
[——— an
DT pTe——
Fr euns Coa. Sepa 70 rear AUTRE ue SoA SSMS


--- PAGINA SUCCESSIVA ---

mon ARTICLE 750 — GROUNDING AND BONDING:
rmbt serve as the ground fauti avs pat i alt of the following couipmens, nterior metal piping cms and budin or
evans comin ne adalat fae la run wi the eltcuit eondatiore
1) An equipmen nding conducior is nor ram with he suppl; io to a separate building oc structure and connected to cast
(nen ad ing grounding Roc 0. tequecd in Part NI of hic
PUG 0 SUT. paro done 0 he ground So ee are no existing lvoe the ground
(21 Tiwary slic pot tote ae gntng EE SSE Ln ale alle
01 Lomita prascion dl oquionen has not ben std on install it a parle bing or aictce suppl bs
he ppl sile of te fd) 8) The connection between the equipment grounding
d te grumi condicio in sed for grnding in accordance ita Conduttore an ine grounding cmos at 2 separate
oon of is ton. de site of td oti shall Building of Furs sal be Ta in ating box
uti Tan cio go of car ef fm pani, 9 similar nce lial meal
41) The cateulated nrutvat lond in accortance with 20.61 Inside or outside the separate building or structure.
(21 Tu minimum wn porting oust 5 as. (E) Grounding Elecirode Conde. The sac af hc ground
ance with 280.122 ing lcd conduc to de grou electodeft) shall
Esreptioa No, 2 1 system bonding jumpers am insialind in arcortante fot be smaller than given in 2304 on the largest
with 250 TOANTI. Extrpion No. 2, thr fede gowndod cit UGTOuNded supply conductor. The installation shall comply
Conductor at he uitding on sarta seven Shall br contea othe ith Pact I of this artic.
equipment outing cond wir, gouniing cto condicio and 95034 Parable, Vehicle Mounted, and Teer Moumesd
i jo ine rs dione meant faa
@ Supplied by Separniely Derived Syne (A) Portable Genesio. The frame of a priabl generator
@) ih Duar Peco. SEU provetion is Sali na be qu si In be Footed Browning Sic:
provided chee die conductors originate, the installation shall as delincd in 200.58 for a ste Suppa by he generator
Som wii 250 SEC) ne bath of the bing condition
0) Wiow Gramm Piotrtion. 1 oserueteni proc
tion in tot posite whet. the conduttore originale, heal.) The generate supplies only equipment mounted on the
Jp dp ett pe enn
bondug jumper shall be connceted to the bulding or rue, PEeRacks moumicd on the generator roth
re rans man ant to the greundin ce odes « nocnaly non-uont caring metal pats of equi.
i "5 ne to the grounding clctrodels). ment and the cqupment grounding condita terminals
(© Ungrounded yrs. ite rece pIaIe ate connected to he generator frane
«0 Soppied by a Feeder or Branch Circuit. An cquipinent (8) Veicle.Moume and Tier Mounted Genermons The
mandy ohn ae described In 290 118, nali pt ofa seiko i hall an Fee Co
flat he vapid and be connie to the bh ist to a groundig lettone Acted IN 25082 for a wer
ing ox structure deconnorting mean and to the grounding ppl by a genstaio: located on he vehicle of Haller under
oot The groaning loft) hab ako be cannot: ae ine foloning rondine
tedio the building or structure discomecting means. (1 The frame af the generator is bonded to the vohide or
@ Supplirdby a Separneiy Derived Syme. cs tame
Part Ts veut pokes The generator cule only equipment oe on te
provided whet the cofactor originate, tre installation hak sods or wal! chan plug ancetzd equipment
fasion SO I lbrough cecpiscie: moc an he senile of bot
0) tinow Our Potdon. I oscrcartent proc: utp lie on the vehicle or trailer and cord and
ton is not provided where the conductors originate, the instal plug-connected cquipment through coccpiackes mounted
ation shall comply with 260 SOC). I installev the apply i ved, rl oon tegen
ing Jumper Shall be eonnccicd 0 the building or sre. (9 The nonnaBl notveumenteariving metal paris of equip
Rare ranting a ant to the grounding ie Late) toni ant) ine spe rity ove fra
JAA otte ecepacis re connettori re generator frame
Conte on oe Same Promise. lot cr be deconnorine (© Groumded Conduaor Bonding A conduct tr is
cans supply one or wore additional buildings or sructurex  fequited to be grounded by 250.26 shall be connected to the
Que sigle management, and more nere deconneriine generator famo If the genctator Ita componni of a soparatels
means located age troia ose building or ratify deriso materni
accordance wih ZEN) Exception No. | and No 2 mt Noe: Ser 25030 fur ri le ese
a Mo tony bfont ote: e200 or mg meg
conditions shall be ct
Toe connection of the ground conduct 10 me 25038 Permanent rll Generatore A coor dial
rounding cloctrode, to normally non-curron-camyin pla a erect round {aul current path a Hive
ground 5 Di the supply conduttori rota a permanent Intaled
fl pat cf cupe, tn tte pen proud ESAS Sl ec om a parm naked
PE bulding RE sm
tn n cquipmont grounding conductor fo grounding and
Banding any nonnally non<urtenicarrying metal parts of
prem [EE —
Copp NEPA Foren use oo NEPA Free Access attori Not dr ars 40% our GHG Gr Gn
Fr euns Coa. See ripa Sa BEST AUTRE ue So SSA


--- PAGINA SUCCESSIVA ---

ARTICLE 259 — GROUNDING AND BONDING: 25052
(As Separate Derived Sysem. I the generator in imallcd as conducior and the grounding impedance device) shall be an
2 Eepariel Seid sem, the Cope In 250,30 thal umpliced condor mi fom the fix mate dbcomnecing
pa means or quieren devio 10 the grounded side of The
®) Noasepariy Derive Syem Il the generator i inal. 5TOWHNE impedance device
Id asa nonseparately deised stem, and osercurtent prote. {F) Grounding Electrode. Comdorior Connection Location.
tion ds nor ig) sit the generator aseombly.a Sapp For services of separately derised ser, th grounding oe
Doing Jumper shal be iMvaled beer de pentrator Ide sacar shall be merida ang pont (Fon the
pment grounding terminal and the equipment groundisg  grownded side of ne ground impodanoe device ho the
ial, bat, 0 bun of he disconnceting (ARG. il shall DE Squipment groundiag connectionat the Srv equipment or
Nec in accordance ih SARE) based on th sec of the INE st Ae discgnncering meant of a parte ved
conducior supplica bs the genecator. om
25036 Impedance Grounded Sytems — 480 Vols to (6) Impedance Bonding Jumper Sine. The impodanc bond.
Ferrer pre ert gts Shit Se fed gi pA Sel
ing impedance device, FPIAIY or, limita he ground. Coloring:
atl Socom shall be permitica for Sphase ac SUIS Of (ry sue grounding elecirode cond imm
all be prrmiticd for $ phase ac gnome growing clectrode conduct connection is made
00 10 1000 vole It all the Coking condi at the groundig Impedance. device, ib equipment
(3) The conditions of maimenance and supervision ensure Boning Juaper shall be acd in accordance wih 26028,
mics uh persone service the maton ae oli thc oft service anes comuttone fora
2) Ground detectors ae inal on the gate cre or the deched phase conduenes for a paral;
Line neural nada not ered derisea sem,
pce grounded rss shall comply vi angen CM the Bowing kets conor connect at the
through €) the Impodanee bonding jamper all be redthe ame =
fwd Sri: See NFPA 02021, Sven fo Hrd the impedance Bowie orcios in 230 S68)
Saf dn the oie, cs 3 of combos WT
nadia merate at Pari
(A Location, Toe growing impedance desice shall be Pani Hi Grounding Blecirode SpriemandGrounding Elec:
instalica besecen the grounding clectrode conductor and the rode Conductor
impedance growstig condor connected to fhe msiem 25050 Grounding Electrode Sysiem. All grounding clocirodes
Er pon Ta rat point oy available, Le prose deed SERIE CANI Tra (AC ae pec
impedance shall be installed between he growing clecrote at cach king or Amctuce served shall be bonded together
comucto and the Impedance grounding comico comes. to fam the Song erode sem. E one of ese
tedio the al poni dere Foma grounding iranionnet rowel Gicchoder st one of more oF ine groumding oo
(E) pec Grouning Contos [nno and Ampae. SOS TST SHS) ugh (90) sha de
5. ThE impedance. groumding conducior from the neazal UalEdand un
Point of the randionticr of generator lo lis comertion pont Evaprion: Conirinencosel ints of sig bulding o amet
to the groundiagimpedance «hall be fll inlaid Shall vor mtd dr prt of Tir omg cl 3m 4 tt
The impedance soning condor dll base an ampagiy Tar nor attese for nie thot dig cones,
pi PTR Satish BOI 22032 Groundig Ec
impedance but in no case shal the impedance grounding - .
concor be malt than f AMG copperor A AMC atiminun (A) Eleciodes Permined for Grounding
or copperclad alumina. (1) Metal Oncerground Wer Pipe. A metal underground
mem Grounding Comection The stem hall ot be Mac pipe in dicet contact with th cart for $0 m (1 9 oc
a emt pean pe. Tore includigany metal nell sg bonded to the pipe) and
pray eiciialy continuous for made cieericaly continuous by
bonding around inulaing Jos or inulating pipe) to the
mat mie The pedane rm ceed lit ons GE Connection of he grouing sete condociai
Reo Fak curve rahi dai Hoc an ar equ n the bling cc) de pes. tall
strie pain cgi te th em Th value si
me N dr Qu Foon mella la le Ghs (2) Metal ground Soppon)Sractare(). One ox more metal
Furgone, err kn For ko em merino nro) support ONERI In deca contact mit he cari
io EEE S008 C20 fovomnani Prt fo Sem Groening dsl fo 30 m 10 1 ox mote, vili of wiht concrete
Hetustant and Goma Poe Spie encasement. IE maltiple metal in-groand upper stridiner are
(Dì Impedance Grounding, Comdurtor Routing The impe. present at bulding Gr a simictare, il hal be perms to
dance grounding comductar shall be permittcd to be instalied bond ank auc into the grounding clectrede sie.
în a separate acevng from th ungraded colactocs. 1 shall
hot be cequired to fun ibis Conductor mi ile phase con toma ei: Metal gt sp sos incl
{OR to he Arti HET disconnetting meant or oercurteni Pas wk Et bo PUR. cop an ver oc]
rod fei
(E) Impedance Bonding Jumper: The impedance. bonding
Jumper (he connection between the equipment grouding
Semin NSN ELEGIAIAL CODE pe
Coat NEPA For ent ve a or NEPA Free Aes psn No! fr ai Eno" ou Gian cranny
Far aa ono ae vietare To mp APS use coma ORE


--- PAGINA SUCCESSIVA ---

smo AKTICLE 880 GROUNDING AND BONDING
(5) Cone Enc Ecos, A concetcemca red lode 25053 Grounding Ecos Sem salon
Bas hon AN END CB ol Be rg oe mee te meta cr.
(1 Ontos mes cs ae gabon ae crea Cop i nd lee Elerion lec
neat et om on BG EA fn om pepe maine, eh pant
rk in one Soe A Gt gram Ke PoE, an phic eer
psp mali pie pece: de nell Aa Cut >
in de ne SLE 0) Below Permane Mkt Lev. petal, ol pipe
ing. or other cllcctive means to arate a 6 m (A ED or and phic Clecwodes shall be embedded below permancnt
ftir pelle
© Bare copper conductor not smaller than 1 AWG <® Sopplemenil Electrode Required, singh co pe, ox
Metal components shall be cncased by at least Bf mm {2 in) PREC clearode shall be supplemented by an additional elec
WELDER SE EI) Eo of tn BATE ih CTR) Toe
portion of a concrete foundation or footing that it in direct supplemental electrode shall be pric be bondi to one
contact with the carth or within vertical foundations or strie ofthc following:
ee a monde i ale I TEE Rel ip ope cer
He casi pk ome doin we poy) Kh pipe opi gearoe oe
big or Aves ah De prem do boat on Smad,
‘one into the grounding clecrrode system. 4) Nonflexible grounded service raceway
ofr atathual Note: Concrete inte with insula, vapor (9) Any grounded service enclosuro
re Ri al fem mag E A a po ingl mi, Dito o i ging i ai a
RNIN RETR ton a cot pi pie oe os ning tr ta a
0 roma Bing, go cig cing de dg or 5
bn i stg ho A ite co pipe, or se
Som of bre copper conductor noi ale hn Quero gr sal 10 moti De oo, RE 0 i
rar EE By sali a be lo Rat La (ET apart
5) Rod and Pipe Electrodes. Rod and pipe cloctrodes shall [nfir amato na] Note: scaling diene, of rods is
ot be less than 2.44 m 8 (3 in length and consist of the tiem a entero So
hoi waren
0 Rod ana Pipe Ecos, The elsezode sll ld
(1) Grounding eketrodes of pip or conduit shall not be fochibataticar 244 m (8 Fo of length È In contact math the
smaller than metcic designator 21 Grade sac %) and, Soil ILshall be deiven to a depih of not lese than 2.44 m (860)
aerei sie al bre il de Badd oo BS (AED
ione mete loc comin peosceilon Face ha wees cock bottoni cco, e circo
© Kota grounding clocwades of smite met and oon RY così Teen heen i an
comer a cel ali be at a Tm ren io de
in.) in diameter, unless list buried in a trench that is at least 750 mm (30 in) deep, The
) ter Linea losin. Ore od goign hai be Hash mit o Delo ro
e Sale posi Fong [pink Sesto iriudotonet ace
fos itn Aja Alt Aid
Fo agio
Han iN n° O) of nr eter ll Bort of
mere Shes hn (51 Fie Elect, Flat seca dall be italo oto
be at least 6.4 mm (% in) in thickness. Solid, uncaated clectro- than 750 mm (82 in.) below the surface of the carth.
Ea Se uil TE A (OOO a ;
«tì Heros Spacing, mac tha one of the coos of
ica {Re i sei NIE de ANO) see si pa
ur Local Men ems or Sarsemres. Sbeo Le DE one granda Mater And al ut fo
Or oh Ft de ia a Coke lemina deve Shall not be lese than TAB (8)
piping sistem, underground ake, and underground metal Kom any other clecirord of another grounding stem.
well casing that ace not bonded to a metal wate pipe. {© Bonding Jumper. The bonding jum pects) weed to connect
2) Non Permined for Oe Ground Borde Toe Ln grinding OR o n ior te SA PA,
der BOE and (E), shall be acd in accordance with 2508, and
be eo in ie mame spe nb Kcha
bi Merl underground gas piping systems. shall not be used as a conductor to intermnneet the electrodes
Nomina, rg score,
©) The smictures and sinichral cobac described in & i
Ea Be (Dì Moi Ondenponna Wauer —
Ee a ali ae DE
fmt Sov Ser 0.048) fe tog cts A, memi anderen wie
00 [ET —
Com RE rc ae NEDA Fre as te of sre Go se ris
ine


--- PAGINA SUCCESSIVA ---

ARTICLE 250 — GROUNDING AND BONDING er
(1) Gontimsy. Continuity the grounding path or the bond: 250,64 Grounding Electrode Conductor [astallation, Ground
ing connection to micont piping shall nor hon wale meters ing elcirode conducts a the service, at cach, bulding or
or Sheng devices and simile Ap scure hore ppl bra eee ar branch cect, ot
da scparatcis dee sd stm shall De installer as specifcd n
0) Supplement Elecrode Required, A metal underground 25 STA dered pe
tc Pipe shall be supplement by an additional cle fod of
Spe clio in 280 5EAI 2) through (AH). I the supple: (4) Aluminum or Gopper-Chd_ Alumiman_ Gondor:
al isco is 01 te. tod. ppc of Plte pe, fl Grounding elrarode corps oi bare, Enero, of inulaicd
Comply with 250 351). The supplemental clecicode shall be alumnum or copperchd aluminum shall compl wih the
bondediooncot the following Solon;
(1) Grounding decode conductor (1) Bate or covered conductors without an exruded po
(2) Groundedsericcntrance conductor mark covering all not be stale where Subic lo
3  Noniksiblegrounaedserice acon rove conditions ar be inmalica in hrs conta in
(1) Amv grounded service enclosure pian
© Asprovided by 280 326) @ Terminations made thin outdoor endosures that are
L510 and eed for the conan shall be peck
Esraption: The supplemental bess sl br eros to be tonde to {ete ane identified tor dhe environment hall be pe
“te ono metal water piping as phn 250 6A CHI din 190 mm (18 in of the botto of the cnck-
(E) Supplemental Grounding Electrode Bonding Jumper Size. 9 Aluminum or copperchad aluminas conductors external
ED mat ceo avon pipe or plate Ecco. to uiblings 0r equipment enchsuces shall not be ter
that portion o he bonding jumper that th sole connection nated wkbin 160 mm {1 in) of the cart
to he supplemental rounding core shall noi be required i
19 be lager han ARC copper mise or 1 AM Shum oh Sein dnd Proerion gun Pye, PE
copper dad ahuminum wi shall be scl faced to the suriacc on which iris acre
© Ground Ring. The ground cing shall be nlc not less Grounding ciectrode conductors shall be permite to be
than 790 mm (30 in.) below the serie of the cath. installed on or through raming members.
150.54 Austin Grounding Electrodes. Onc of more ground. (1) Nox Exposed 10 Physial Damage. A 6 AMG or ger
ing electroder shall be perititica to be connec to he couip. SPP, copper cad aku, or alain grounding cle
ment grounding foro specied in 250 ili and shall not Tod conductor not exposed to physical damage shall be
be required to comply with the ciectrode bonding toque:  permitied io be cun along the surtace ofthe budding conser
menta oi 28050 or 260 BC) oc the resistance requitemereso! tion without metal covering o pro ction
THAAD Exception, but the cats shall not De id as an ive Pope AG 0 lager co
cain ground ia current path as specie in BONA) e Fhyekal Damage 3 0 AG oe lrg opp
nash Conductor expose 10 phys damage shall be Proicered dn
£5058 Common Grounding Electrode. Il an ac mem is Agid metal conduit (RUC). intermediate metal cot (IMC)
connected 10 a grounding trode in or ala buldmg of mes, Schedule AO igi poli chloride conduit PVC), ceinforaed
tate, ie same electro shal be ssd 0 ground condor hmong cos cit pe XW (RTRGXW), ckerial
enciosutes and equipment in or on hat bulding or stridure. Metalli tubing (EMT), or cable amor
fi separate ets, feeder, or branch circus Suppl a BU (a) smaller Tian 6 ANO, Gremlin chetrode con
or Crowding ckarode conctor:
ing and acc coquired to be connccie i a gronding Coir than 6 ARG shall be proteerod in KIC. IMC, Sched
eae), the same grounding ekdrode ty) shall b ick WI pred In|
45060 Use of Surike Termination Devices Condueors and i
Ln Contact with the Earth, Grounding eloctrode cond:
diven ppes. co, or plate cicarodos used toc grounding (or and grounding clecirode bonding imper in contact ih
strike tcanination devices shal not be used in eu of the cach sali nor be coated to compl th 3002 or 305.15,
srounding cketrodes coquired by 230,0 for rounding wiring putshali be bunid or SIE protecicd if subject to physical
Somer and eouipracni. The provklon shal ot probibit ine HSE
toguieca bonding together i TARE eiearroder of AIT 5
ser (©) Continuone. Except as provided in BONE) and
formali Note Se L See 210,106 for the bing cis Fairies he Beg: Caio re oe
ef he Ei ric am Sowa he ordictors) shall be installo in one cominuows length it
i he bung techn sw on Gu a SpE oc on. I necessary ples or connections shall be
dn a, made as prin in the king:
toa Note Se. 2 Brig unter fll separate
Kreative wil bit sete rome haem 4) Splicing of the wirenpe grounding cleetrode conductor
eit bootie =i shall be pemitted onls by itescrsible comprossionaipe
i ' connector [etn a¢ grounding and bondng equipment
150,61 Grounding Electrode Conductor Material, The Gr by ine crothermie welding process.
srounding clecrode conductor shall be of copper, aluminum, (2) Sections of busbars hall be permit to be conncrd
Eopperdat aluminum, of he items as peti in 230 SC) err tou a ig clectrode conducior
The material slots shal be resistant to any corcosve condi. (3) Baltea, chet, or Sein connestions o Amktural metal
ton bing at the installation or shall be preci again fameso! bulding otstudate
cotrosion, Conducioss of the vice pe shall be solid orsian: (1) Tol mea, ec dere ot bolidilange
ea insalate, covered. o bare. Connection oi metal mater BI:
ses bon NATAL ELECTORAL GO 10417
Copy NEPA Fore use ue or NEPA Free Access stn No! fr GE 1 Gu gian cranny
Far aa ono ae vietare om APS use coma ORE


--- PAGINA SUCCESSIVA ---

25064 ARTICLE 850 — GROUNDING AND BONDING
(D) Building or Srarvare with Multiple Disconnecing Means with 250.6 based on the serviocererance of feeder cond.
in Separm Encionmex la buiding Or structure Issupplica by foc) at the common location where the connection & made
a sve a ocd with two oc mere disconneciing means n i
(E) Raceways, Cable Armor, and Enclosures for Grounding.
Spare cnelosuccs, Ihe grounding clectrode connection shall
be made in accordance with 2606411) (D) (2. or (DIS). Electrode Conductors.
(1) Common Grounding Electrode Conductor and Tape, A (1) General, Ferrous metal racewars, enclosiuros, and cable
Corman grounding elocrode conduit and going Se, 3x tor grounding shack conducors dall be ciccia
pe ir ama continui for dt prt of attachment lo cabinet or So
inp chide condhetr shall be seed dn accordance ah ie ground clamp di fuing Female meal mena each
2568, based on the sum of the Secor mi arca ol ine largest 10 the ground lamp or fining, Ferrous metal cacca. creto.
ungrounded conducts of sach set of conductor that 465% 30 cable aro shall be bonded at cach cd ot the ca
supplics the disconnecting means. 1 the serekocnirance Na? 0 cockwue to the grounding clechode or ound
Fonductors comoet dicec to the ovechead service conduce: nds to craic an electrical paral! path
conductors comect dic io the girhean serie SOMA Nonfarm metal acovays, enclosures, and cable aoc shall
under not be pied to be cloctcally continuo
bral the common groin clcctrode conductor shall be a
sized in accordance with Table 20.68, note | (® Methods. Bonding shall be in compliance with 2509248)
"soning coco conductor tap shall cxend to the SN Teed by one di the metodi in 2809281) through
Ina iach comeing noses ence, To grounding OO
cletrode conductor taps shal be aed in accordance wth (3) Sine, The bonding jumper tor a grounding cloczade
23068 tor te largest semc nicancs of foods conduetoc conduttori, mconar enclosurets). ol cable armo shall be
Sori the individual enclosure, The tap conductors dual ibesamesite as, or larger ivan, the largest encloscd ground
Connected to the common grounding lets mondeo by eerie condizione ii sounding
nc of the tolloving metho n sich a manner ta the
common grounding clearode conductor remains wot a 4) Wiring Methods It a racoway is uscd as protection for a
splicc acjoine munding elcemade condor, the insiallation shall comply
JA, ih the requirements of the applicable Faceva article
(2) Connector sica at grounding and bonding equipment (F) astaliaion 10 Elecirodettì. Grounding electrode condue.
(8) Connections to an slumb or copper busbar not less toc) and banding Jumpers interennnceting grounding clo.
than È mm thick x 50 mm vide (n thick x 2 In ade) trodes shall be italica in accordance wis one OL the
and ot a length to accommodate the number ol termina following. The grounding clccode conductor shall be ica
tons necessary lor the installation. The busbar shall be for the egos rounding eloctrode conductor required among
scure tadened and shall be nak in an sccessibl all ie cledtodesconnecisd toi
location, Connections sha be made by a [sd connector
or by the exothcrmie welding provers. If aluminam {1 Loe Seounng choc cto shall be promiied to
ci lo an convient grounding cleo avi
bibars are used, he installation shall compl with in the rounding ekettoe sistem where he other lc
BOHN ‘onde. anv, connect by bonding pers that ate
@) Individual Grounding Electrode Conduciors. A grounding iretallcal In accordance with 28038{C)
clarode monducto: shall be connected betncen the ground. (@) Grounding elec. conducioc(s) shall be pemitica io
ing cco som and one ot mote al ie lolowing, appli bo nin 10 nc or more groaning loro) indivi
he al
Ending jumpetts) rom grounding clectrodets) shall be
(1 Groumded conducior in cachi serie equipment dicon: nine to be consci to an SR OL copper
necting means enclosuro Basbar not koe than mm thick x 80 mm vide (5 in.
@ Equpren: grounding conductor instalied wil the hid x 2 In wide) and of slider: length to accommo.
tetder{s) oc branch citeuit(s) toch than serviers rer
© Supply bonding Jumper Iation. The usa shall be securely tend and shal bo
Each grounding clecrode conductor shall be sid in inetalica in an accessible location, Connections shall be
accordance nih 25068 based on the service cranes o feeder made by a listed connector or by the cxothecic welding
mace) supplyingthe ual disconnecting means process. The grounding cleetrode conductor shall be
mite to be nin to the busbar, Where ataminum
(8) Common Location. A grounding clocrode conductor Bisbars sce used, the installation shall comply sth
shall be connected in a vicevay or other accestible enclosare pari
‘on the cay sc ol oe distonnocing means mons e more a Ea ’ ang ehe
ot the following, as applicable: (©) Enclosures with Ventilaion Grounding cl
ors oo shall no be mood Teno sree
(n Equpment rounding conductor installa with the PENIAg Ol an enclosuce
feeder 25086 Sue _of Ahermting Garren Grounding Electrode
9 Supply sete bonding umpc Condunor, The sic di the grounding chess conductor
and bonding furmperta tor connection of grounding electro,
i, on ee The os shall pn be mal, than ise in Table 21088, cnr a
rounding coco condurlo shal be sac In acmordance PICA E2008) thigh (O)
ren NONA ELECTRA COE DEEbion
Coat NEPA For ent ve a or NEPA Free Access stn Net fr as Buon Gu gian cranny
For tires Gort: SSE oncr “o (oro UT an 5 use COTE ESAS


--- PAGINA SUCCESSIVA ---

ARTICLE 250 — GROUNDING AND BONDING 058
Tobe 150.86 Grounding Elec Conductor for erasing. (A) Acceesibiliy. All mechanical cements ed 0 terminate a
Curren Sysems rounding. clectode onducio: oF bonding Jumper 1 a
rounding cicezode shall be accemble.
Size of Largen Ungrounded Exreption No. 1: An cased ov brid connection 0 a conc inencazed,
‘Conductor or Equivalentarea for Sise of Groumeting drum, on ried groundiag st trode Fal not te waived be cri.
[oly mini Enciots Comair on
Ln emi pricy
vim No, 2: Feb or forse compro cones
urn oo UD OF rmination, ogther WEA the mechanical means und do
Comer Cea esa ml wisn nat
Copper Aunminum Copper Aluminum the mechanical means is wuersibte, shall not e yequined to be accessibile.
_torsmallr  \Oormalker 8 6 (by Effecive Grounding Path The connection ofa rounding
orn wow © + clecttode ondudor oc bonding Jumper 10 a BROWNE cl
Te Z=_ " - tonde sali be matie in a AME tha will eur an clecine
MA grounding path Where neces io cnsuce dhe grounding
Once 30 rows E Ch tor a metal piping sic used aa a grounding eer
uevgl 0 ag 00 Borin sbali be provided around neato fons and round
- ” ans equipmeni Hey to be disconncetea tor fepalmor ceplace
gem Tew Tw wn me
_dwesghem  deagnm0 erent while cotaining the micgrnat the
vert Own wn Iz rounding path
JL ILL RR Lc BE Srounsiog Herod Conductor Connections. Grounding
orti owmm wn = cette conaton: and bonding Jmpers shall be pormi
Rm = oe connoried at the following lotion: and usa to extend
1. WF ataltiple se ufseriiccenirante vida cone direal la a the connection to an clectrode (5):
erie dg set imeibeadsenke amducuts selnfanteivani (1) torio metal vatce pipng tha is electrical continuous
i oof ke ate tobi o ite atto sith a metal ler) ec pipe cece and
rane civiscun ital be dele ned Di ine et laica not more than 152 Mm (9 1) tom the point of
eva ie ciro piso adr sof eal e entrance 10 the building. as mesure along he sates
2 te wove cemtae lo es e ng cline ig sha be poomkicd to estend ibe connection aan
toi ice all he stant Un leo ie 1h rks AEA). Inferior metal water piping locate more
cin bonba require ev ii be ser et than 152 Mm ( 11) trom th point Ol ortcance to the
N se Tab remo nT building. as focasurcd along the we ping, shall not be
ic a a condactor 10 inietconncei decoder of The
(A) Connections 10 a Rod, Pipe, or Plate Electrode(sì, If the rounding electrode sistem.
rounding ckctrode conductor or bonding jumper connccrd  Eyupeion: tn industrial, commercial, and institutional buildings or
to a single or multiple cod, pipe, or plate clectrode{s), or ans strane, if conditions of maintenant and sypemision mave Mat
combination there as ASA in 250 5315) or (ACT), ony qualified penona servito th msl rion. err metal mater
dots not ETE on OHNE 0 OF cleamdes RD toquite è pp load nor din 133 n (3 10 fam die poli gi entrance lo dio
larger site conductor, the grounding eloctrode conductor shall puilding, as measure along th asker iin. shall è permitied as a
not be required to be larger than 6 AWG copper wire or 1 AWG doing condurior to inineaneri sets that ae part of the ground:
aluminum or copper-chd aluminum wie. ing strctrodo tem, or as a oan ding Arce condo, i he enti
meh ad on short vana as epithe,
® Connections 10 Concretelncased Electrodes. It the
eae a CFs fh ior cd hes pipe Bt eA,
Fig dectode condurior of bonaling imper concen er aricilingi, of th per nd for
lo a single or multiple concreicencared cleceodels), as pori
described in 280 3AA(8), docs not catend on 0 other pes (2) The metal siniciacal trame of a building shall be poemi
of cloarodes that require a larger size of conductor, the ted to be used as a conductor to ntcrconnca cketmdes
grounding ckctrode conductor shall not be roquircd lo be that ate part al the grounding clectrade sistem, or as a
larger than 1 AWG copper site. rounding cloctrode conduca, Uokddown bolts secur.
Fg the stuetural stocì Column hat ate conncercd 1a 3
©) Connections 10 Ground Rings. If the grounding clctrode ing ihe suction tt ate copnecied na
onductor or boring Jumper connected to a ground ring. a and located in the support footing or foundation shall be
described in ZAHA, docs not extend on to other types id located in the support ning or foundation shal be
di clogroncs that require a larger sae of Conductor, the rend ri val fame
ming chao Conductor shall Max be coquirca to be uikding or structure to the conarete-encased grounding
fa cloctrode. The hold-dovm bolts shall be connected to the
larger than the conductor wed for the ground cing. ‘oncretcencased clecirode by welding, exothermic weld
15068 Grounding Electrode Conductor and Bonding Jumper ing. soci wees or other apprened can.
Gonnecion 10 Grundag Eee The cometh als 8) A icbangpe concitata sito nsalied in
grounding ciccione conductor arthe service. a cach Bulg accordanca nih, 250 SAAS] with an additional rebar
Gr structure where supplica by a oder) or branch ciceuit(s) section estende from its location within the concrete
e ata scpacaici, Sete iso and maa bondng foundation o footing to an accessible location that & not
Rampertsì shall be made as specifica 200 GALA) through (C). subject to corcosion shall be permite for connection o
es, ANALOG 09
Coat NEPA For ent ve a or NEPA Free Access stn No! fr rE 1 Gu gian cranny
Far aa ono ae vietare om APE use coma ORE


--- PAGINA SUCCESSIVA ---

25070 ARTICLE 250 — GROUNDING AND BONDING
rounding clctode conductors and boring puinpers in 250,86 Other Conductor Eaclamaes and Raceways, Except as
Sccordance wi the following: pennittod by 280.1 120), metal endosures and raccva for
a The adil cebar section shall be continuous villi Gee han service conductors shall be conned to die equi.
the grounding cloccode rehar or shall be conneeied ent grounding condor
to the grounding eloctrode char and connocicd upon No, 1 Atal carves au rrr for conductors aed
together by tee tie vies exothermic WCW. Weld: rung uals of open mr, Montante sing. ond
ing. or othe secs means eet sented cate af vot br ger to be coma 1 0
b. The tehar exicnsion shall mt be exposed to contact 1 quigment poundmg condotir hi secon 07 wig me
ith the cart iit corrono protection. Ph a fr
e. Robart be wed ar a onductor to meson SEE
ect the electrodes of grounding cketrode stems (11) Bowtie vue nt
25070 Methods of Grounding and Bonding Conductor (3) Am jw from prbatte contact sith ground, grand weet,
Connection to Electrodes. metal th orto conducive matin!
(A) General. The grounding oc bonding conduct shall be {*) Ar Ede agai onto persone
‘connected the grounding clecrode by exothermic nelding.  Eurpiion No. 2 Short scious of mal elas or ays sint io
ated kegs lid pressure connectors, ie claps, or other pride support or protein of cable dds fom pascal damage
Hed means, Connections depending on solder Shall hot be shal nar br une fo be catered da the Ament quan din
used Ground clamp shall be Wot for the water of the omdarior Fount grins
rounding clearode and the grounding clocrode conductor N
ana, fue on pipe, cod, o other buricd eleetrodes, shall also 24/0001 No, 7 tel compos shalt not br ged io de con
be lstod Tor diet soll burial or concrete eneasetment. Not {ef © fi opupmnt pounding concer or sappi bonding
moc than oe conductor shall be connec 0 the ground PT tw of the piloming colton it
clectrode bya single dampor tig unless the clap or uth (1) The tal componrats air installed in a run of noni vare.
Ri rh eo Arte porns Cr and senta pom ot contati 5. moun er
À p 430 min {8 di. 10 mn) past of the metal comput.
©) Indoor Communications Spes, For indoor comunica, 2 Tie main coupon ae mon fo otha rome
tions purposes il. a lide shot metal srap.bpe ground sacnamis} and air dol from possible cont 10 an part of
clamp having a iid imetal inse that sca on the cleetrode and eo ee eb ot fo)
ating a tap of such material and dimensione that i i nt a to
Nike) tosteech during or afer installation shall be periti od
Imation Sets Lote oud conn tht cide for
ca ana hE For mii enema: Pari V, Bonding
25090 General, Bonding shall be provided if necessary 10
ari {V. Enciomre, Raceway, an able ns ensure elettetal continuity and the capaci to conduc ick
Pant. Encl 7 and Service Cale Cor ans Tule current likely to be imposed.
25080 Service Raceways and Enclosuces Metal coches
and caccia for service conductors and equipment shall be 5092 Services,
connected to the grounded conductor if the elcetrcal stem It (A) Bonding of Equipment for Services The nonnally non
stpunded or tobe growling chro madacior for Foc. cumenteamin metal parts of equipment inated in the
Elem that are not rounded folloning sinll be bod together:
Exception: etl components chat an ingl in a run of nda. (1) AN raceway, cable twa, cablcbus framework, aula
ground nounetalic aces) and ela rom pore contact 65 utes, or series cable arinor or sheath that encose,
minimum cue of 50 mn (13 in i all aif the mel comp Conai, oc support service condurtors, except 3 per
nents shall no! be maui to be conve to (ho gronda conduc din 21080
ppd boing jump: or grandine res cod on 2) AN enclosures containing service conductors, including
incier ange owes, of the We, kek port in the sei
2504 Underground Service Cable or Raceway. mete ings, be
(A) Underground Service Cable, The sheath cr amor of 3 (B) Meimod of Bonding a1 the Semice, Bonding jumpers
continuous underground metalsbeathed or armored cee (0 30 EE tit article Shall be md rend
Cable ssn that 11 connected to the grounded conductor on A by he iy
cable sou that connected Lo the grounded conductor of inpalicd connections, such as reducing wath or wets
upp side shall not be comuiced to be connegted to Be concentrie, or ccc knockout, Standard lcknats o bi
rounded conductor at die building or sructare The seat) agi shall hot be the only mean for the bonding roc by
‘Gr amor shall be permite o be Iielatet from Ue Imerior (15: eg ha hod he pest 5 be aaa oh mabe
metal raceway o pip. inechanical conneetion of de cacca)
® Underground Service Raceway Comtaining Cable, An picctrical continuity at sevice oquipinent, service acca,
undocground metal service amway that conan 2 welsh and service conductor anchoraces shall be ensurcd by one of
sheathed or annorcd cable connorid 0 he graunded ey erie eo eo ”
‘conductor shall hot be toque to be connect to the grou: ns
ded Conductor at the bulding or urueture The scatti or (1) Bonding equipment to the grounded service conductor
atinor shall be perce to be insubicd from the. interior by an applicable method in 280 ACA)
inetal raceway o piping.
70-10 NATO ELECTRA CODE Seren
Copy NEPA or arse a NEPA Free Access pron No! or GB 10% Sou cnc cr gn
For tires Gort: SSE oncr “o (oro UT an 5 use COTE ESAS


--- PAGINA SUCCESSIVA ---

ARTICLE 250 —CROUNDING AND BONDI wos
© Connections made up wicnchight using threaded connctons The usar shall sequels toned and shallbe
Coupling, erase enc. or 1108 hea hu on illo In an accom location: Connections sha be made
ped by a ae corn. I alr: bh ace inca te ital
(3) Tocoaess couplings and connectors i made up ightfor on shal also comply wih 250 GMA). The bushar shall be
metal aco and metal elad cables Conte to the rag Shoe ss by a conduca
tm Other Tod tes such ss hing pe locks, bush hat Is the larger of oe tolioving
ings, or bushings with bonding jumpers (i) The largest grounding cloctrode conductor that is
25094 Bonding for Communications Symems. Communica: connected to the busbar o
tions sistem bonding conductor terminations shall be connec- 2) Ascequiced or permitted in 250.514)
tod inaccordance with BASHA) or (8). Exception ta (A) and (8): Moons for connecting inser bonding
A) The [mersyaem Boning Teminmion Device, Aniotess.  condacars a af yin of omminktons an 4 not dr 0
tem bonding termination (BT) for connccting interest 0° sed in or onthe buildingor siratur.
banding conductors shall be provided extemal to enclosuresat Informatie Note: The we of an 18T oun reduce circ!
the sere equipment a mett ing opp clone anata Noe The we of
the dsconnoing means for any aki or Store tat
are suppl bra ects of branch Secu an IST in ins È 25096 Bondiag Ober Enclonmes.
shall comply with the following: {A) General. Metal mccways, cable trays, cable armor, cable
(Be arcossible tor connection and inspection Scatti Ciclone, Toman ings. an other meta} nono
€) Comi of a scio ot ils win the capaci lor connec: en <arng parts Mat ace to sitio a Sqr ground
ton o not lex ian three mike paring conniue: ing condadiore, sil or whom de we of rn
or " supplementary equipment grounding conducior, shall be
No intertere vitl opening the enclose to a service, Bonded dl WAR to ensuite ckerrical continui and the
ling o seine de connecting means, ax TASK Capa 1 conduti an cuttent We to be duporeti on ther
equipment " 5 A annie pani, chat a similar coating hak DE
ti) Bessone mouniedastolons Crave a arcade contact points, and conan sutatcs on
a A the sec equipment toa metal enclosuce tor the Shab connected by means ol fittings designed so as to make
densi equipment to a metal Meier cnclonure, or do Sh cemotal unnecessary
an exposed nonflexible metal service cacenay, of bc (H) Isolated Groundiag Circuits, I installed for the reduation
connected to the metal cnclosure for the rounding of clectromagnetic interierence on the grounding Secu, an
electrode conductar with a minimum & AWG copper equipment eats supplied by a branch cheat shall be
Contr Premed 10 be bolaea from a caccva containing che
b. A the disconnecting means for a building or struc-  Sipplving only that equipment by one ar more listed nonmetal
ture that is supplied by a feeder or ranch Cel be le acon Ting ocaled ai toe po, of atachiment ol the
ckaritaly connected to the metal clo for the racenay to dhe «quip cache, The metal aeons shall
bulding or structure disconnecting means, or be comply with this article and shall be suppl mented by an inter
connected to the metal cnclosure for the grounding  nal nsubicd equipment grounding conductor installed in
ckatrode conductor with a minimum 6 AWG copper accordance with 290 116(D) to ground the equipment enclo
5) Belisted as groundingand bonding equipment me
® sounding: cae Anformatbinal Koi: Coc of an bok cqulpmeni grousdiog
Expos tn xin bulding sums, fav of th sistem Sophos fos eb De ragni Fo on E
bonding and ong Arvindo OTS eA Oy FOTOAD) ower en
Gal St and 50 5 hon a5087 poi For Over 150 he vo Grud. Vor creino!
oT shall notte ted An sare means civil a cbr 1 Bonding for Over #50 Volta 10
once 20 voltata ground ch cota continuita! metal race.
Jor connecting interestem bonding arsdl giownding clctrods conductors ways and cables with metal sheaths that contain any conductor
ln ped st he rip and 0 rm ST econo sh be cred cn moe
so an dubbing or srs hd eg by a fede or E(w) except for
cin ot eyo of eo me, atthe pei (8), except
1 Esposot ———
i e o a autor DLE or meme nocinate are not
ef cope orth OMNIA or 4 0%. rls Acoma or ra och
comasan-esisiant bauting or grounding sctods condurior a Ou ds listed to provide a elabie bonding connection, the following
he groaned roceuay or equipment wethodsstiokbe poised:
eb Se 10100 0.00, MmA2I cod opign (1 THT copings and cour for cos wit tl
fe mean Fintan rand faglia of swans
ci pd Ber sublets siren. rach, (21 Tuo inuuts on vigid mela! conduit or intermedia metal
eT Rr Sout one ti atone outside of nes and sooty
Pavia (0 te with ters it 1 Sgt e bo or cati
® Other Meana. Connections to an aluminium or copper 1 Jan aa led lic og comin, rats ml
a et os han @ rara hick 0 Tom ie € (i x rt nor, nd cole como
Sn) and a a lengi to accommonats at okt thee (4) Soar
Terminations for communication stems in addition to other Ld
[Oe on
Copa i Foren ses EPA fee Access fr No! orn con cus rg
Fa Coo Ace, Tore a1 SA SEAS


--- PAGINA SUCCESSIVA ---

ms ARTICLE 760 GROUNDING AND BONDING
150.58 Bonding Loosely Joined Mel Racevmys. Expansion, Table 250.031 Ground Conductor, Min Boning
cspareion delitetion, of gelation [ings and (scopes Jumper Syme Bonding Jumper, and Sup pin 5 bonding
oF of ractal scema shall be mals cece Falls continuo Jumper for Alermaling Curren Syme
emma bonding pipes or other moana
250.100 Banding in Fazardons (Classified) Locations. Regard: ‘Sse of Larges Ungrounded.
less of the vokage of the chearical stem, the choral Conductor ot Equivalent Area Size of Grounded Conductor
Contini hori ncn Som ial ar of Chet or Paral Condueiore or Bonin Jumper
prises heres Spans fay prez proven
es containing eval equipment hans baci per Ferry
elastica fon, Bem nH. 5055, anti 300.5, shall Copper Coppercin
be coso br any of the bonding meth spediti in Copper omer Copper abv
TTD) through (81D. One of more of ths ponding o hms Copper sheen
Mmethode shall be weed whether ot not equipment grounding _Zorsmaller 1/0 or smaller E 5
othe ne tr edn mors toro mor © I
mulionductor abb awe! 2D oc 3/9 4/0 or 230 a ?
Vom Note See 3030, We. MOSSO, i, oe POI MOH i
Pret eine Gaye aww Tt vo
£500 Grom Cont, Bonding Contos, art — gE
mp sa alt te a Cwonsgh 600 dough 990
A) Material, Bonding jumpers shall be of copper, aluminum, WED ene
copper<dad alumnuni or ether comrosioneresistani material A Oren Oram wa Iz]
bonding rape shall be a site, bus, crew of similar sista ble ough ra
conductor. naw 170
(By Aviachment. Bonding jurmpecs shall be attached in the therti09 Ouer1B0  SeNeslady
mar spec in TH tor circuit and equipment and hy ores
25070 to ging ec ods we ica ego an grt yh enor ec
Fo Jeet retry ep ve
{C) Size — Supply-Side Bonding Jumper. akan, he romance eonduetor or bondingjamper dall have an
«Sire for Supply Coniston Singh Raceway or Cable, £50 Lo IE er hc Ero aod
Toe wpa ring moc ol ok be a nS TAR ti aC nk eda
spedfod in Table 200. 10HCH be th hee aero sooo oT amount
2) Sar for Pane Conductor nsialiationi in Tuo or More amatori
Foreman Cat It to ingroundod supply onion are 5H erst mil raf ang yh foe foc
Corner in tale ns Ge re Gaga or Gaba feted paral 190 nd oto Tl
Sippb ile Sng Jumper shal be Sac in 'accordante Wh on and DE ama dal sami Conoco
iter otte tallone piri ba alaminam orespperalal
Qi dn tt being repo for cach reas or abl whit e wisionarict e ine gima Milena of Ig
lhe skeen 501000) con he Peed lst sana fog nl
de othe Let bngronaed supply conducioe nach abo hat renal
or ng bonding jamper mole to nig vor SERENE er
SE ava or als shal be ser accordance wh dtd hes ai
Table 00H bad an the md he ceri lit roto et
Connocted in parallel in cach tos or cable The site
of the grounded conductor(s) in cach racovay or cable load side of an owrcurrent devicofs) shall be sized in accord:
Shall be basca on the argos pounded sour ont a So
Zahara of cable. of th sim the cca mi
Secs al the Lege rounded conductors kom cachet A single common ontinuoue equipment bonding jumper
omen parallel in cachi races or cable shall be Bec to connetti mo ao oe 1c os sable
pr : Nel be med 0 connect tu De quos rR
boa Note Ko. li The tra egy dar, ele largest eerie nt device supplying circuits therein.
Uan E Sa A ante emi mapa e CE) nll. Bonding jumpers or conductors and ou
RIE SIRE 0 te nd por see nh
Information] Note No 2: Se Glug 9. Tube & fo the crc or ouside of a acca or an enclosuce.
er im WRG ea 90 AN Cl Inside Boregey cr an Etonate, 1 plod inside a oc
{D) Size — Equipment Bonding Jumper on Load Side of an ay, cquipment bonding jumpees and bonding jumpers oc
em Be Jumper on ie onduciors shall comply ih the reuse ens of 250.119 and
Trim
ra JE —
Sommer NEPA Foren a use co NEPA Fre fess fr No! ra tin con cus rs
Roeser


--- PAGINA SUCCESSIVA ---

ARTICLE 250 — GROUNDING AND BONDING 250.104
@ Onde a Raceway or an Estos. I installed on the thats hcl to become encogiacdshall be bonded tang of the
outside, the length of the bonding Jumper of conductor or felloving:
equipment bonding femper shall mot exceed LA m (6 11) and (i) Equipment grounding conductor for the circuit that is
Sha be outcd whe cen oc closure. Eppes rounding conducir
Compt An cp bong jer or psi nding (2) peer equipment clones
mr thn 18 (07) stk rmsd tows pol we) roundel charac eee
el sf ing or ponte aslo oi (0 Grodin scone cove suns
arson hs sold ed io ed contr apr (3) Ono gr move rounding choco md. the ou
metal taveous, mud for boing groanting riattrodes and shal vt be ing cloctcode “conductor or bonding jumper to the
ei i oad we Sn evocano grounding chron rol sullicicni sir
® Praverion. Bonding Jumper. or conduelors and equi “The bonding conductorts) or Jumpers) shall be sed in
‘ment boing ues shall be elon In accordano: wh accordance win Table 290 182, and coupmens Seong
FRR and (8), eondueors shall be sacd in accordance nih Tabk 250.128
tn ne ot Pip ng the cain of cert tha i lack to cog dhe
Banding of Piping Spnems and Exposed Stracturi pros Svaem(s). The points of attachment of the Randi
Metal. jemperis) shall be accessible.
{A} Metal Water Piping. The metal vatcr piping sym shall Information Sexe Ko: Bunting al pio and metal sic
be boca pe (n 290 01/31, 30006 (ACI deo silvia the promo at pros ein ade
dl} Genera. Metal war piping sic) installed in oc [both Nole No 2 Sec NFPA 54. Nena Fal Gr 0
Sache 10 a building or siruetate shall be bond 10 any Si and NPA 200, Samara fr Se Immliaton of Lge Foren
rung frog hintybabitiut
Qa) serve equipment enclosure © Structaral Metal, Exposed steuctural metal that is inter
(2) rounded conductor ai the svc connecicd to form a metal building trarne, # not Inentionalis
(3) Grounding eicezode condueior, it siden ic Emami pe and i Mele 10 become mga shal
0 One oc mare grounding clases wed, li the ground. be banded ta any el the faloing
ing hci conducior ar bonding Jumper 10 BC (ry Semice equipment enclonae
grounding clocteode is of sullicicnt size ©) rounded conto at he service
The banding jumpers) shall be installed in accordance with © Fei Maid tox buildings or structures supplied
20 AMA), (8) and (E), Th points of attachrment of te han atecder or branch circuit
ing lump) sali be ccs The bong jampecta shall (1 Csounng cleciods conc, € ont small chan a
BET atcordance wih Table 10 IO ec hah comico sad in accordano ib Table 260 AMC
Shall tb qo 4 to be BEE han 3/0 copper or 20 kel (One ar more grounding electrades we, th grou
thay um and cxecpt as permit ein ecaote le noi smaller Th a condacior
1a i std in accordance with Table 250.102(C3(1)
Bg pa Et The boning conductors or jumperts) shal be ied in
podium ido or sce or dhe aa or, accordance with Table 250 102C) (1), except that it shall not
pances 5 metaBicallo Ea om alt athe occupunco by be ir so be larger than 3/0 AV copper ar 20 bel
pancics iz mcialicalls ate Lom A ober ope bh Mumnam or copper iad alirinura, and ronald in actor
el emma atei Pina, te metal Mace PIPE Que Mib O ANA), (ha (E). Tac pain ot attachment of
oh capes grounding terminal ol the satchgear mich: the bonding jumpetts) shall be accom unk nstallca in
board, or panclboard cnchsure (other than service oquip.  oMpliance with?0 8A), Exception No. 2
ment) supplsing that ocqupane. The banding mpc shall e ely Derive Spee. Metal nate piping seme
Sed in ae wh EID ich fi re ah te
5) Balldinge or Strocvares Supple by a Feeders) or Branch itame shal hone to scpacatciv derhed ems dn ceo
Gram. Fe a was pi py eed or ance wah 250 104) 1) through (DC).
ata: to a building or structure st ror to ans of (1) Metal Water Pipir ems). The grounded conductor of
the tolling Bm Sha De bonded 10 te pees
(1) Building oc sinicture disconnecting means cnchsure  acvAR point the metal Wace ping mstem(s) In the arca
whee located at he building or strutture Servo by tach separato deriva sie This connection shall
tn Spm groundag vivir fun web the supply e mado ai te lare or on he pric feed gite
amor vere the grounding dicerode conduttor £ sonnei, Fac
9) Oncor mare grounding elearodes wend Bonding Jumper shall be Sze In accordaner nah Table
eo en wet wth 200 1041) bastd On The args grounded contro i
ing jumpects shall be sec in accordano wth (oc separa detec SR except tht £ shall hot be
20.3020). The boing jumpe shall ot be teguiscd 10.08 roc to be large tha 3/0 AWG copper of 290 Wel
{ar than the begest Ungroandod Iecder of bianchelrenlt hein rep a arr
conduciorsupplving th bulding or structure. mp aaa et
5 scion So. 1: A prt bong junpor io metal wee rpg
®) Otter Mera Piping. 1 insialled in oc tached 103 blk Pi va no oe Ete on er E
ing HEN. metal piping CTI, including PPI. ht snes godt ed he
[PP ELECMIOCAL CODE 10188
Copp NEPA Foren 156 NEPA Free Access attori Not dr ars 40% con GR Gr Gn
For euns Coa. Sepa 70 BEST AUTRE ue SoA CSTR


--- PAGINA SUCCESSIVA ---

20.104 ARTICLE 250 — GROUNDING AND BONDING
ash drut sso and th conction to th wer png dem vn ive groundiault coc path. I installed, metal covers, plate
i ara nds Di sep rind 3m tings extension rings, and metal tings shall be attached 10
ie metal enclosurcs fo ensure an elloctive geod Bult
xpi So è A sparate ondine jumper do ide nei atri AE coe path or shall be connected wih bang MPLS 1
ven sik vt gi | nc gm aos ety fs “ie pat ot soll be ae
led as a pean cette oe Eo of a URS £1
tum ix uid It TAME vids conucir for a spariny oformatiii Nic Bee 21097 for beni rensironano for
an er and i noid 0 ho etl ar HOG io 08 verb
aad ty tte pars did rm. 850.110 EquipmemFamenedin Pace csr Conn ty
@ Scrat Me, 1 cxporcd scucural metal that nic. Permanenti Waring Methods. Exporcd, normally non-core
Connected lo (orm the building trame Sx in ie arca served camving metal pars of od equipment suppl by or cndos
by the separail ese sem, if shall be bond to (he ing cnductori or components that are likly to become
grounded conduaor of each separidy derived sister This cneigired shall be connoeted to an couipment groundN
Eomneation shall be made at the same point on the separa  conductor under any of the following conditions,
derived stem where the sounding cloczode conductor 15 (1) I within 25 m (AED verticallvor Ls m (51) boron
conncacd. Each bonding per shal be sca in accordano: a oman oc ground mul cect and mbes to
Win Table 250 ITC). td on the anges ungrounded Conta bi pera
conductor of the separately deriv sys cacept that it shall (2) I cate in a wetordamplocationandnor imlated
i be teguiceì to be BSE than 3/0 AMG copper oc 280 (3) 1 incl Kah eoact wih md
Ker tarps oc copper dad aluminas. 0 tin sha Cais oantion o
Carpi se 1: paras bin jumpor to the buitang rm 3) SPFACH ba a weg method ha provides an oui
tl shall lb pie maia rn gp set ment grounding conduce, cxcet a permitiod by
edo AR yo mati fiume of a URS Er 25086. Execpion No. 2, tor short sections of metal en
ee mg eds nb o 5 Spe pcs ih an ist ove ok
oon
Expo No, 2: A spt ming pumpor to vw wii wrod FO comin ty speriol permission, dhe meta rame
sett sul i nd wr Dining men of Ou LT A Gir na ometti ara
Conductor fo a separata Sie d to and is boule to 0 mgr, “Jove insulari pomgro und hall note equi o be grand.
Satur wal i award by the parati dru cen: tsrqpiion No. 2 Disvilution apparatus, ——
copactor cavs, mounind on wn obs ai a Might rain 2.3
(8) Common Grounding Ecwrode Condurtor, If a common Saper ied on wie pos al height ening
rounding cl rode coco installo for multiple sepa: (071 atave gioia or grate ew shel rt e imguimd Lo br gunundat
{atc sind sys as permiltoa by ZUNE) and apron So 3: isindeguionent prtrcind tn a system of double ins
om mt metal thr inietanancetod 10 tom he ati orde awit rob An ob oni ia lo
wiki tame or interior meta mater piping exists i the arca iquipnene ising conductor f ach 750m 5 engl, the
served by he scparatciy derived sera, the metal water piprng shares ch be hes rie
and the sina) metal member shall be bonded o the eden .
common grounding coco condurtor In the arca seed by 250.12 Specific Equipment Fastened in Place (Fixed) or
fruit Ak Fp Connected by Permanem Wing Methods. Except as pect
cd in $50 112) and (0), exposcd, normally nonurrere
Exapaon: A sparato tonding junper fom anch dried em 5 caring metal parte of cgliprioni described In 90 150A)
rl ig ana to rut el ir SU 0 Cig (KI, and aly rc arg metal paso
pid th wd watering od Tvl aol ATE di cquipment and encloeures deserved in 250 IL) and OW,
aa sm 1.1 pray med am or bord STAN be connecicd 10 an Cqpent grouting conduca
PP it i ok ocho ol voliage.
250.106 Lighming Protection Symes The lighting prot (a) Sviichgear and Swichbourd Frame and Siractures
ton system ground terminal shall be bonded 10 the DUANE Saichgear or svitchbna tà {ram and stidures supporting
or structure gratnding electrode sen switching equipment, except tram ol Zaire de sviichgear o¢
Informati Note Nec See TAG ir ie fie ine Sitchbrards £ cllocuvel insubtod trom ground.
tivo dee. (B) Pipe Organs. Generator and motor frames in an ches
th Ste 0.2 See NFPA TOO. Swot bse Gals operatcd Pipe organ, ries alley pated rom
ne tira Poti Sarei ah Sou daled Iata ground and the mor Aang i
Ho ro, Dite ad ah Gx Muti or Frames, Moie ae, provid by 10212
) Enclosure for Motor Comrollers Enclosucc foe motor
conroliers unless attached 10 ungreunded POrable cl
Pan Vi Equipmen Groundiag and Equipmem Groundiog cones unless attached to ungronndod portable ip
for ved
50.100 Mentos. eters pr (er and Gran El pen fo cos
to be wd cont banding Mmpers or SUPE grunt
ing conduciors, or both. oT 19 bear» pat ol an elle
0-101 [Er p—
Coat NEPA For ent ve a or NEPA Free Access stn Net fr as Buon Gu gian cranny
Far aa ono ae roar om APS use coat RE


--- PAGINA SUCCESSIVA ---

ARTICLE 250 — GROUNDING AND BONDING 250.118
(F) Garages, Towers, and Motion Pear Sei. Electrical (1) Inothec tha sential ocupancios
equpment in commercial garages, theaters, and motion a Reftigecators, freezers, iremakers, and sic condition
ns en mis opin o Keto, fe en. and i condi
circuits not avec 190 voks to ground. b. Clotheswashing, clothesdesing, and _dshavashing
{69 Electric Signs. Electric signs, outline lighting and associ- machines; information technology equipment; sump
ated equipment as provided in 8007, pumps; and cloctrical aquarium equipment
ae provid ) «Fine mac operat ol, atopy and td
it) Motion Picture Projection Equipment. Motion picture morcaperatoi mol, and Igt Inari motor
projection equipe. piu sos
ing and Fi en, Ee a Mer pero applans of he following Di
© Remon Control Signing and Fire Alarm Circ, Ei “operated app ng pos
© Remo Cono Sing snd cpm Cre, Se [Rc Bione, Sr ve
opering at less on 30 obs Bip applica by Che 1 embe
ponerlimecd citcuits, by Clase 2 and Class  cermnticontrol ©. Fortablehantlamps
Bing ch, anti by e alam ches shall be penn È Cota plored pple on clap or
ded ton grounding ds reine te Part H or Fari VI of NE tions or by prone ang on fue rod,
hear
fiir Ny
© Lumines Luminaites a provided in Fat ¥ of Anh 5. other ope sd in eto conductive locations
cle 10, Exception: Toots and portable honclomps and porable Lumivaires
(© Ski Mound Equipmems. Permancnib mounted chr: hy fo by amd in nel arconductioe ions shot me eid
CA con and A shall commer to The ppc a 1 cit o on fond Funding cove pi
SrA Cou Wirehipe cquipmen Grounds Eh an Selangor DA i mand mdr f
emia sali be sacd at reqrecd by 50158 i Sets
(Ly Motor Opered Water Pumps. Motoroperatoli water 250.115 Nomdectrical Equipment The metal pars of the
Birt meh the subriconble me. folloning noncocs kal sgtprmen deceived in he station
FOO PE MM Be Sion 1 ie Sii premi grnunalng condito
Bt o£ pn a TT ny ra aa
op Sci mapa: groin cone ive
pump Pez i (2) Frames of nonclecrically driven elevator cars to which
250414 Equipmem Connected by Cord and Ph, Eos ermal coe reached
normally noncurent-carrying metal parts of comand plugs (3) Ilandeaperatod metal shifting copes or cablos of electric
Connected quipraeni shall be conncticd 19 the Spent fra
grounding conducior under any of te long condition
mbm Note: I cube msl da 1 bins ce
Expo: ised tos et apn, and sid pip rornd i 2 5 J me 12 tn
Tt se rgb ll ep bee oem on ai rao I ponte sie
dom oquipneni geundng coor pty o mem doy Sor
Rb htt Job dal + 15018 ops of Sims Orounding Contr
n mado clastic cations (A) Perminea. Each cuipment grounding conducior cun
{9 Inmet tie i Se oh Eero em
oft fokog
Exreption Xo. 1 10 (21: Motor, if quantal. shall nat be required ta be {1) A copper, aluminum, or coppor-chid aluminum conduc-
comuttd 0 an equipment runding coud tor. Ths conductor shall be solid ox Stranded insulatea,
Exton Na 2 0 (2: Mat frames of vcs bmn agpiinor covered. of bare and to form of ante or a haba ol
exraptal by speri permission hall wt be equi to be comet to ans shape.
n equipment grncing contactor, în which rae the fromer silt be (2) Rigid metal conduit
nt ind fon gr Bla mo cts
Heel metallic tubi
tn residential occupando: (8) Listed texte metal conduit meeting al the folowing
a Refrigeratore, freczers, icemakers, and air condition. conditions:
ps a Toe conti eeminaed in is igs
b. Clotheraashing_ ciolherdeing. and debating È. Tac cel conosco In th condi are
machines, ranges, kkchen vaste diposcr informa: protected by overcurrent devices rated at 20 amperes
Fo ls ym 3p po and et pops
calamari apn ©. Te rile of the cons dos not exc meri des:
©. Thand held mor operated took, stationary and fixed a dado ae TA Nl
frien and ha Apts a. Pac combinct eng of oie meal condi, fos
‘operated tools ble metallic tubing, and bquidtight flexible metal
«. Motoroperatod appliances of the following types conduit in the same doce ground-aul current
[Ep son Bione, and vt path doci mat oer LAM 818
e. Fonablehandlampe
[ET 10185
Copa i NEPA Foren a eo NEPA Fre fess fr Na dr ansi 11 con cus rg
ee EE avons


--- PAGINA SUCCESSIVA ---

ms ARTICLE 150 — GROUNDING AND BONDING:

©. I lex is necessary to minimize the — ox conga bee MC cable that is ect and
Sato om equipment orto provide Mion emir as an mae grounning order
for equipment tht tomuices movement alter installa: (11) Cable ma as pee n 392 10 ana SS AN
Non, a WE pe SPATE grounding Sos or 12] Cabk bus fearework ar pen in 370601),

a bontling porn accnraance ath 250.0 CEMZI (18) Omer loca electdicaliy continui metal facewajs and
price Sienna gues

1 enol etal conti is consiructoai af stainless (19 Sora metal ema sten for grounding
oe a wie ype equipment rounding conducior ar -

Posa pn MIEN brn ae re In dct ee
born pope fibers
@ Lisca liguiatight fe xble metal conduit meng al the (8) Not Perminea. The foloving shall not be ee as ci:
following conditions. nee grounding conduzione

a Theconauitis terminateain ice ting. Grounding caso condicio

B. For mattic designatore 12 thiough {rate secs
So rs Sek cons conn i Spe singe paudngcotucir vient in
he consul ate protetta by overcunent devices fontane wih 30 GA, ant tn applicato puts for ih gie
the Condi are proce mn ong ower and renin rd cot

pe ough 35 (rae secs oT ate FL mV of os rbd frm i na fort
¥ through £43. the circuit conductors contained nO AUTO ground conduca: and a gmunding eiretnte cond
the conduit ace. protected by ernment doses 9%
rated not more than 0 ampeces and there is no flex 7) sernctural metal frame of a building or structure
Rie metal condi, foxible elke tubi, of liquid: : il A
tghi Tei metal on in mes dosgratori 12 250-119 Ksentieation of WarsType Equipment Grounding
through 16 (trade szcs % thraugh %) in the cletive Conductors.
gromnd fault current path corri. Unica required chewbere in this pi

a. Fi combina el Toile metal cong es. (3 ener, ole cei cheer in th Gy cor
ble metallic bing and Vquiligh Mexible mctal eo iin (rial velo of adc cp:
Cori in he sare chectite FTA coment, Cr inate Ida ua covered oc mai oly
path cratered Lm Ie Conto gm? ate lo has ube grees of grec i ane

olen ts necenar to minimize the ranemision

or more elo Ape exit 2 prio i sec.
ol iba from equipment or to provide lability (ETUC BTS that cee,
for equipment tht topics movement aller installa, geen wai anc oc mere ll pe, of oorves ec
Solingen cence th ZIO WARE) op Ed by he section shall not be od fo ungrounded
‘shall be installed. hi

1 blight fioxible roetal conduit contains a sisi Exption No 1: Fein Csr Cl 3 ats, urd
los ae tore, witempe equipment Fromme or alana cobs a communication catia comainiag on, cro
conditio ot a ing aper dn accordate Wh opin Ios, 30 als a or 60 wt d connota to equi
SATE shall be a Ter no gua to be rnd oli femora

1 Fob metalle nang th tubing is terminato in gi gr ottica on wis oo mor low sor ot
sv tings an meng flowing comin Tm quin ning os.

a Toe ict conucies contanea in the tubing are pion No, 2 Fle crs hang an gel nslaion and
Ea by nen A Ao OAT JY] A Sg a FA
oe ew onto Fs hn

b. The combined length of Hexible metal conduit, flexi e * ” PE able oa siti cat
Bena ae ai fant Kise camp ff od id bagna
Coin the sare ne pron ani coment 9% aon pe fondue
pathdocs norescoca LAM G10 Exton So. Conducors with gon tion sha  permittn ia

(Amaral Tp AC cai as prin SE 100 Bard anid Spat ostinato ite
The mppet heal of mineral, malt us ent of ae signal conto! al mle 4511,

able Trpe MI. ng tras, Signaling cat installed in accordance with ois exergiion
(0) Tope MC cabs tha provides an cloths grounaauli ZII cds an run gmanding marr ln toon ah

Stren path in accordance Wh one or more oF he 530113 Wea Furs Sounding fondo: sok be bar ov

following: Aes insulation ov @uering Sat de pren with one or mor vow.

a. 1t contains an inate or uninsubaica equipment 47
ES conductor in compliance with (8) Conductors 4 AWG and Larger. Equipment grounding

b. Toe mb moallc heat amt nals 70 SG ana bee sta compl long

ip ment grounding/bonding Conductor of inter: At the time of installation, it the insulation docs not
(ire All Dy of inter, TI e al SO rv re pA
psi lapo ata ini a Ra @ an equini grounding condor cin nd

e. The metalli sheath or the combined metallic sheath and at every point where the conductor is accesible.

Inn cquipracni grounang sacar of ft month
0-8 [EE
Copa NEPA Foren a use co NEPA Fr ess fr fra tin con cus rg
For vece Coa. Sears 10 rear AUTRE ue SOA SSA


--- PAGINA SUCCESSIVA ---

AKTICLE 50 — CROUNDINGAND BONDI mma
tion: Contos 4 AWE ant lang sali nor te mquirnd tr pbpsical damage yan ref ceva abl amor unless
Satin conda todi on ia pho td aut Feel po of ox Fri menor sal build
(identification shal cncieck the conductor and shall be "FOF Sues and if not subject lo physical damage.

secanpi ed heh Ha 250122 Sim of Eqipmem Groutiag Conductors.
Siping th nation or conn from te entire (4) General Copper ana, ot copper dad aby
expo Engl coe: conduca ai te Toe pe sali not be
b. Cobrng the insulation or covering green at ihe Small thant show in Table 250 122. The equipment ground:
cy ing coconut ec ta be ge. hn To
Marking the insulation oc coscriRg with green pe oc circuit conductore suppbing the equipment, IF a cable ray, a
[ei al the ten rination icona 0 a sal oa di aa IE un a (he Soup
- ean Ore concise condutior, 33 provided E0319 and oh RC).
em pono cable, ai the a haan shall be hall comple ih £50403) 0) (814.
pemittod to be prrmancridy dentifica as cquipment ground: Equipment grounding conductors shall be pemited to be
Ing conductors at cach end and at cwery point Where Be soetioned within a mulicondurior cable, provided te
Conlon are accesible by one of the following means Combined lecular rll area compli wth Table 25 122
©) upp oe insulation from fe nite exp vg res Soe de coor are
@ oben co dan see oan ms tor any rear aime han eed d2
(5) Marking expect atone recs tape orgreen Shon) Ss) Tern squat stoning
cs? oi Gees. ll Sree he como. uo, abet sll be Heath ot open
duello dhe emt la ve mi arca 0 he ed
©) Fixit Cora. Equipment grounding eonduciors in fxs. Sondueiore
De coste stalle Insula and tall Rare a or ou e
finish that is cither groen or green with one or more yellow. verption: Equipment grounding conductors sill be permitied to be
ri dat it lhe teen of och wi Uo lt quad ern to poi an eto ground fos ine
pe ohn dnt en DOMANI oH
250.10 Eguipmer Grouting Conductor asulhion An 1) se Gre. see din condi
pipie Giro. sigle couipmeni grounding conduce
equipment grounding conductor shall be installed in accord (0) shali be pennitied to be installo for BRACE SUAS
ance sb Zo IZA), (8), and (©) are installed in the same raceway, cable, trench, oc cable tray It
at Frey, Cable Tra. Cable Armor, abbas, or Gable Spl be Sat for Table 0 FE To he ren avec
Shoat 71 cons of ova, abl an, cable am, dks pening cut conmduciori in the raya, cable
Cais Cameerh 1 ce ea ord Ria me ibi a Hench. or cable ra Equipment grounding onducior
raceway or cable, it shall be installed in accordance with the installed in cable trays shall meet the minimum cequiements
Spplcabie provisions in this Code using fitinge for puis and FSI)
EE et ing comin fe
Cirene, Equipment grounding comuciore for
used AR connections, points, and fig shall be made fight motor ole Send Tn accadano wii BEDI)
ig an ole ir ce
oft oS he CL Calde oti e i
Im oe: See he UL Gute Wns Far EET 1) General, The cquipmeni grounding conductor sc shall
Shean SING ILC mt be small han atcrmin by 25012301) tad on he
cal tire protectiie sytem a lied freroitine cable msi rating 2 be branch-draiit shott-ciccuit and ground-fault
(B) Abin and CopperCind Aluminin Conduaorg POCA O O
Eoin growing ordudari of bare, soca bots ©) Insiamaneous Trp ies Brea and Motor Shon Circ
ted aluminum or copperdad aluminum shall comply with the Frotecior, [E the overcurrent device & an instantancous-trip
oki rhe or or ce os: Moie
(9) los part fa napplicable cable og mo bare oct ESSEC 5 pormi ai Ea
covered conductor shall not be installed if subject to Qual element umodela fuse selected for brancheliculi bor
e conditions o Satire in direct contact with circuit and groundfault protection in accordance with
e emminatione made wibin ouidoor crclouccs that arc 1307H (0), Exception No, 1
Fate ide nine fer dr costonret ali be perm. (E) Piechie Gord and Fiture Wire, The cpiprnt ground.
ca thin 450 mm (18 ind of the per af dic cacio: ing comducto ina Hil cord ky cg set Co
fe NEO re Ss bot
© Mumtinum or copperclad aluminam conduciors csiernal coor we wih oe vos of an ie dn Shera
la bulk: ae ere shall ne be den mio 05, Mali not be sale ss di AO coppe anal hl
0 mm GLA in) of the carth Whew terminato within a ho he smal than he circuit conductors. The equipment
Ac ae comet ho ror condicio n a Tole cord uit a Sc cone
Epon rm Contatore te Tian 6 AVO, SOL on Clk ed ns mi Tab
iP ad an ae on. pani
di 18M and T0133 Excel No.5 cope ground: (P) Conduciore in Pale, For cicci of parallel eorductori
ing conduzione abe on è AN Shall de protect oS pred BHO IC th pment rennin conda
[ER rom
Copri EPA Force ce NEPA Free Access att No: or rat 1 Goes xs
Far Paura GOOSE NET O Or A Tweets


--- PAGINA SUCCESSIVA ---

pony ARTICLE 250 — GROUNDING AND BONDING:
tor shall be installed in accordance with Z.IZAF)D) or Table 150.22 MinimienSize Expipmen Grounding
he Conducors for Grounding Raceway and Equipment
Fo i Arr J TT
(a) Single Racavay or Cable Tray, Auviiory Gute, or Cable somaic Overcarren
Tony. circuit conductors are connected in parallel in the same Device in Giron Ahead
ny ary Fane oc cable Tay, dng meenpe of Equipment Condi, Aluninumor
conductor shall be permiticd as the equipment grounding 16, Not Exceeding. ‘Copper Cd
conductor. The wire lspe cquipmen: grounding conductor {Amperes Copper Aluminum®
Shall be sc in accordance wh 290.12 co hs avn mn m m
rent proce device or the feeder ar branch circuit » i H
I Staph Hwa 1 condiuctori ate sah In muli co 10 È
pi away and are SAAC in paral WORDED. 0 È Hi
Fook gout conduetor, § used shall be nation in each ii
aca and sali be omen in paral, The equipment wo fl i
groundingeonducior installed in cach cacevay shall be sed in 00 +
‘accordance with 250.122 base don the rating of the over quent 00 3 '
protective device for the feeder ar branch cut 00 > vo
Wir Epi Gowdng Contos fn le on î oh
Pmi Wise me ong odor kn 00 1/0 E
cable ag shall meet he mi imam onu ementi of BOLAND) VO 0
alle ansa mec the ca: 02.108) pe oe Fr
0) etl Bcromy, Auto Guts, or Gable Tras. Metal 100 va E]
racewaps or auxiliary gutters in accordance with 280.118 or 1600 +0 E]
Cable tags comping ih 392 806) Hall be pei as the pen wo pe
qui pren grounding conduc. 2200 = on
@ Mubiconductor Cables. ww ow ew
1 Exp av provided in 2 IZZO for cacca 00 wn 50
or cable ra san, the equipraeni grounding conducior 000 00 150
in cach multiconducior cable shall be siaca in accordance with om #00 120
FA ashe the overaurient protective device for the otc Where necessary Le ch with 2/0, HANG or (BHD the
<ocbancheicauit wen teu ater hal bd ae od cn 1 ii
or cont cancion of multiconducior ables are SPIE KO orth
connctod in parallel, the cquipment grounding condector(t) ve alah feria i 29120,
in ach cable shall be connected in pa alle.
© muliconducior cables are paralielea in the same
cacona aunliary Jui, or cable tar a single Mpc Spor unkss the opening of the cutout or itch disconnects
qrounding conacor hat 1 enn atcordanet WO 250.122 allsnurcorof eng
“hall be permitted in combination wih the equipment ground: 250.126 Lienienon Of Wiring Device ee
ing conductor provided win the muiconductor cables and al for the connection of the equipment grounding conductor
E come together
Equipment guundig conductors italica in cable Ball be identifica br anc of the following:
ras shall cet dhe minimum teganements of 392.108) (1) A grocn, not teal removable terminal screw wih a
Ie) Cable mays comping wa 397 AOC), metal cacevars in besagonal bad
accordance wih 20.1 Ln of ily guiter# habe permitiod (2) A gran, hesagonal, ot cai ccrovable terminal nat
ds the equipment grounding conductat ©) A gros pronte we cone he terminal for the
©) Fender Tope. Eguipricni grounding conductor installa conducior ertrance hole hak be marked with the word
ith feeder tape shall not be smaller than shown in Ta oc rund the ees G or Gil a grounding symbol,
250 122 based n the Cating oF the cont device sod e geno pound the les Coc Gt a grounding bel.
the fede on the suppl side ahead of the tap but shall not be mina fo th equipracnt grounding sonduaior Co
coquired to be brger than the tap conductor. ity removable, the arca adjacent to the terial shall be
250.124 Equpmem Grounding Condurior Comma. similari marked.
8 Separabie Connevions, Separable eonnecllone such as Bb ae See Wore Ne Figure 0
those prot in Arana SABER oF attachment Ps and
a conncetori and ECC ace shall provide for It Take
tbc of he equipment grounding conduce. Fit make
Vachieak shal not be cegueca If inieribckod equipment.
tet aloe x seq aa O
ming continui oer 230126 One uunzie at
® Swisher Noanomaticcitoat or wich shall bcp in SITIONS Ram e rimane Farini Em for
the Spm, grounding conducior of a preme wang Saves eral he Grana
0-1 [ER ——
Coat NEPA For ent ve a or NEPA Free Access stn Net fr as Buon Gu gian cranny
Far aa ono ae roar om APS use coat RE


--- PAGINA SUCCESSIVA ---

ARTICLE 150 — GROUNDING AND BONDING 250140
Pan VIL Mebods of Equipmeni Grounding Conductor (2 6 eonnocting to an quieti grounding conducior of
Consectiona the te pe that È comme hin the sare a
250.150 Equipment, Grouting Conductor Connections od hs he TS hers ci a
Eatin giounding condiucior conmectone at io nce DE
ty doce vene shall be mate in redone th Esplin So. 1° As puck n 30.13KC) tn eguiprent granding
ETN (I) Equine grounding conducto: connectionsa! cowtuer sali te periti an Peas hom ou
Hove capes a be made a Trea in SIMO of conden TP Rated
CE po teplacement of novgroungipe CPI att papi 0.2: or di cin, de yn goanding canduor
Fica greg leranal sth map moles wh an cq. “hl be pede do br en sparate fim he hei contusions
mec grounding teminal, and for branchciitut eatensiore oak] Note No, Ls See 210,102 an 210.168 rc
ont pi had astride hela td
ground tonductor in ie branch circuit Soe shall ee rr a ofa a
be pecrtitiedas indicated in 290 130(C). Sii sable ha Fast saune
{4 For Grounded Systems. The connection shall be mad by 250,156 Equipment Secured 10 a Metal Rack or Sartore, If a
bonding he quipriani Goud conto 0 the aA) metal fact nai cot to hep pra
service condctor and the grounding ckatrode conductar. ing conductor in accordance with 250.434. it shail be permited
{B) For Ungrounded Syssems. The connection shall be made to serve as the oquipment grounding conducior for cloctrical
EE as oon ae equipment aired io and Hare Font il te metal
giounding cleetrode oie pay
(© Replacemem of Nongrounding Receptacle or Soap Switch 250.138 Cort saaPieg Connecied Equipment. Non-curtcot-
and Branch Gre Exensions. The cnulpmeni groundng  camying metal pars of corthand plug connected cquiprment, É
a equi lo be Connental loan squieme i gronndlng cond:
snap switch with an equipment grounding terminal or a lo. shall be connected by onc of the methods in 250.18ACA) or
Branch etc cuension shall be potraitca ta be connetto ta (8)
retin folowing, \ i
I (A) By Meana of an Equipment Grounding Conductor. 87
(1) Any accel poli on the grounding elecuode sistem and of pen Sdn rand an Mi the
Sheraben no power supply conto in a cable ascent of flexible cord
tn An semble polti on the grounding elecrode conduc. proper weed in a grou ing Apo attachment Plog mia
pi Fata grounding comer
9 Th equipment grounding temiral bar win the creto.
ee nc ean ek for to. tecopiage or Epo Toe pranding comacting (le of prandogive pig
fu phe the branch ddr inp 94 po Mid to dn} tl mena
(9) An equipment groundng conductor that is part of festoring die on cheuits operating di not oor 150 lis bree
‘another branch citcuit that originates from the enclosure #9 (80 comfuciors o over 150 vols tetera conductor and
where the branch cicuk for the rece piace, snap switch, £0
or branch circuit originate {B) By Means of a Separate Flexible Wire or Strap. By means
(3) For grounded sera, the grounded servior conductor 0a sparate Toth i at Jap Insalata of ae, ores
Sitia the seis equipment ence ted to an equini grounding Conduct and proce a
i) For ungrounded sisters, the grounding terminal bar well as practicable against piesical damage, if pact of cquip.
iin the service equipment sodas pots
atl Note N 1S 06401 for thew farrnt 250,140 Frames of Rangrsand Clothes Dryers. Fares of lec
ler peat cack he ranger vad en. coo cooking
Uufornuatiinal Kote No. 2 See 401908) for ronson UI, elolbes Ais, and outlet Janction bac tht are pari
Fag, Ft cite shall be connected ta the equa groundrig
onan in accounts 25010) or the groundeti
250.182 Shori Sections of Raceway or Gable Armor: Lbs or in eeosdance i
Sections of metal raceway of cable arma. If eqated to be OMR dance with 280140065)
once to an cquiprucni grounding condutioe, shah be (A Equipmem Grounding Conductor Connections. The
connected in accordince sth 290 154 crei sipping the appa sali include an equipracnà
134 Eguipmen Fann hceor Comet Pr. SERE acc. Toc ame de pple ISH de
em Waring Melbods (Fuad, Uric connected o th grows Sonrect®d to the couprmont grounding conductor in
ded dieuit conductor as permitted by 25082, 250.140, and ai
250112. rents metal pas of Sq an
a and other dose ounce, ball be cio to
pipe grounding conducior by one. of the fon
dn equipe grounding : ing
ty connecting 10 any of the equipment ground
Condor perm by 280.1 IE) Though (0
[A ——— in
Copa NEPA Foren use io NEPA Fre fess fr No! ra tin cou cur rng
a rE en,


--- PAGINA SUCCESSIVA ---

0100 ARTICLE 250 — GROUNDING AND BONDING
(8) Gromara Gondocror Connections. For exising branche Epson So. 3 Bcamdravpe ub oping at ur 100 nl
Cie innallaionz ork. i an equipment grounding Conor siate rnd avin 153 FH YI an 53.70
is not present in the outlet o penton Box the frame of the 259 pn E
appliance shall be petted io be connected 0 the grande 250448 Multiple Ciro Connections, I equipment ©
conducior if ali the cores in the following let fica (1), Wied to be grounded and È supplica by marc than one
2), and {$) are met and the grounded conducior complice SIC! containing an equipment grounding conducier, a
ame means to terminate cach equipment groundig conducor
meeting ie remeber of 0A hal be provided ae pec
(3) The supply ict 120/29, ingl phase, Sac. oc Gein 280 184 and 290.18
Bol dere form a Spt. be we
connectedmmon 250.45 Connecting Recepiacie Grounding Terminal 10 an
tn The gounded conductor is not make than 10 AWG Equipment Groumbg Conductor An equipment bonding
copper ai A AWG aluminum ar copperciad aliminam. Jumper shall be used to connect the grounding terminal of 3
9) Grounding contacts of receptacks furnished as part of grounding-type coccptad to a metal box that is connected to
ermine ed he es Sn equipraeni outing conducioe, excep poemiied (n
1) The grounded conductor is insulted, or he grounded 250.146) theaugh (0). The oqui ment bonding pimper shall
condicior è unnsubica and pat ol a Tope SE service. be Son in accordance wih Table 250.122
ace cable and dhe branch cc onc at the as Surface Moumed Box. IC a metal box is monic on the
©) The grounded conductor è part of a Trpe SÉ series: Sole ai 0° tec meio a conta beeen the deer
entrance cable that acigiates in equipment ather than a FOL SG TERS TR CC RTE TD one of the
service, The grounded conductor shal be elated or (Ls TA be cmone fom cecpiader tat do
id covered kh the supply enelosure wh bc ins. toi shoes shall be removed from ceptades tat do
Jang material, sich astape or OCHA io prevent contact al contact. Dick meabomeal conact for prog
of the uninsulated conductor with any normally non continuity applics to coscemounted rece ptades if the bax and
cument aming metal parts over combination atc Wea at pra cami beeen
250,182 Use of Grounded Cirui Conductor for Groundizg (he box and he ceceptarlo, A [he expos wok cosce shall
ipmen. be pitied © be ite grounding and bonding means under
Equip pe Bounding ng
{A} SupplySide Equipment A grounded ciccuit conductor both of the following condition:
PE Come (1) Th device is attached to the cove with at ast mo
metal parts of Oquipmeni, mrovas, and athe Snore ai tens that are permaneni (ch 3 Te) or fasc a
sh ot te foloving locations shecarlocking or see oc Hocking means
q 21 The coves mounting holes ate located on a flat nonce
tn On the suppl side or within the enclose of the ae sete. abut
ie desonnecting meant
2) On the supply side or within the enclosuce of the main {B) Comaci Devices or Yokes. Contact devices or yokes.
meeting means fox separate buiings as provided designed and ied as ci grounding shall be perni i
TRE Explor a 1 Conjunction ith he supporting Se 10 xshish equipment
9 Gn the supply side or within the enclosucc of the main bonding between the device pole and sh ype bones.
diseonnecting mean or qeecument Ges of 3 pa (cy Floor Bae. Foor bones designed for and cd
csi oor Bae, Foor boxes designed for and lied a
i evel Mer PO DNS ANA TT be the bo ant ine devi sal he
{8} Losd Side Equipment Exccpt as penmited in 250.308) permitted.
(1), TOSI) Excopiion No. 1, and art X of Article 250, a round Rece instalica fo the cde.
Sun ae EAE Sl tok ban AP oles Bron Recep, mh fo he ced
Eumentcanying mia pass of spines on the ka rie of oon 0 OA niece on, be coped
the onic deconnecing meas or on the ad side af a ope Fore purposcly id fe te coeeptac mouniing
ick dered sie diconnecting means of le ovcrcitent cans shall be permiticd The cecepiacl grounding terminal
is fo: a sepa deo ste not bang a main Sole peri The a rounding ea
disconnecting means. conductor run with the cecuit conductor, This equipment
Spin So. 1: The frames of ngs, woliseniad uns, cour. rounding conductor shall be permet to pms through one
nad coating amit, oo dip andre he conten perm. OF More panclbomrds who a connection to the panclboard
ud fo exisang insiallazioni by 250.140 sholi be pevmited to br Founding terminal bar as permitted in 408.40, Exception, so
onto ta pvt oe ovtuton Sto Comite within the same building sues eae at
Sn Coir rounding conductor terminal of te applicable
Lxeeption No. & 1 hol be pri to connect meer enclasions 12 derived syxem or service. If installed in accordance ith this
he rounded civ condudar on the doa side of the suite disonnnt soction, this equipment greunding conductor shall abo be
att of the following conditions app: permitted to pass throu boxes, wicwars, or other endosurcs.
(1) Corn faut rotcton of quipment is not instal. without being connected to such cnchsuics.
(2) A meter ances arr located meds adjacent © te so formation Note: Use of a solid cquipucni growading
ke distonneeting means aco duci ut rele he require ff cunsecg the
091 The si fh man ies onducors voi smaller Gon tr Fo. in St be Bok co pi oso
se fee Tbs 230 122 for equina Sng aac. Sonate
“oie NATONAL ECT. AL CODE Oreto
Copy REP For nce oor NEDA Free Access allor No! fr ars sn Gos cn eng
Fan Coo Ace Tare ateneo Use Corali SAS


--- PAGINA SUCCESSIVA ---

250188 Continuity of Equipmen Grounding Conduriors and grounding connection made at one or more supply stations. A
Anchen Ben, 1 cmon cet ground connection sali tb made St nel rvs
or mina on cquipmeni sithin or suoportod bra bk. ora any Font on the premees ATE.
he insta lation shall comply wih 250 AAA Into
Ml comply ith 2.1482) i ish (, {By On-Premises Source. If the de sistem source & located on
Goon, The equipment pomdng contac permitnd i the promise a grounding connection all be made at one of
330 101) st & ind i de somite oder equipment he olor
pong costato orlo de dot Te
(A) Connections and Spies, Al oqupment grounding) The en stem disconnection means or ovcccuzent
conductors that are spliced or terminated within the box shall device
Bo omer op Connectionz and splices shall be mmie (3) By oth means that accomplih sister protection and
in accordance wih 110.148) and 230 except that insulation that we equipment ted and ented for the we
shall not be coquiced. 250.166 Size of the DirectCurrent Grounding Electrode
(B) Equipmem Grounding Conductor Corsi, The Conductor, Tht size of the grounding eleairode conduce for
erage of grounding fonctions shall be auch atthe a de gatos sull be at spec in ZHAN) and (8), xcept
disconnection or the cemoval of a luminaire, receptacle, or as permitted by 250.16A(C:) through (E). The grounding cloc-
the eves ay ora i box ots nat ialertupi he deren rod condicio fora de ate shall meet he win rogue:
continuity of the cquipment grounding conductors) provi. ent in this section bt shall pot be copied to be larger than
og an Seve ground fad current po 8/0 copper or 90 kamil alumiur or copper Sad alurtinara.
1) Meta Boxes. A conncction used for no othe purpose (A) Non Smaller Than the Nera Conductor: I the de sem
Sali be made bccn he metal bro and ie cquipracai | CORA of a BARC balancer sei Or a balancer ding wih
ning sodas The equipment bonding Jumper or ovetcurteni protein at provided in 445.12), the ground.
Equipmoni grounding conducior Mali be seed from Table ing choco conductor shall no! be smaller han the neural
290.122 based on the largest osccaurtent device protecting conductor and not smaller than 8 WG copper oc 6 AWG
ditcuitconducior in he box Marinara or copper. hd aluminum.
1D) Nonmeullic Boxes. Gre or morc equipment grounding  (B) Not Smaller Than the Largest Conductor, 1 the de sistem
conduiori brought into a nonmetallic i box shall be ls olor than as n 50 108A), the grounding clecrode
ee a ono oa ort 1 conduttore sali nor be vmallce {han dic largest condor
Ee coe vig  supplisd by the stem and not smaller tha A ANG copper of
conduca e opere Frond A AWG aluminum or copper clad aluminum,
©) Connected 10 Rock Pipe, or late Electrode. If connected
vit, Di " to tod, pipe, ar plate electtodes as In 280 8A) 5) or (AI 7)
Pan VIII. Direct Carrem Seema thar pon of the grounding cicctrode conducior at lr the
250.160 General. Dicccicurtent sisters shall comply with Sole conncction to the grounding clocrodc shall not be
Fart Vil and other sections of Acide 200 not specifically inten: feguicd to be larger than & AWC copper wire or 4 AWG alumi
edo ae meme. namor copper. dad alumbum we.
250,162 Direc Corre Circuits and Systems 0 Be Grounded. (D3 Connected 108 Cone Encased Electrode. li conned
Diccetcurrent ciccuits and storms shall bo grounded as prot. 10 a conactoencasel ckerade in 20AAA 8). that
or xy and 31 prcion ofthe grounding cicetrode conducior that È the sole
Connection to the grouning cle rod shall nor be Fc to
4 Tvo Wire, Direc Sptema, A vite, de sistem Ebene A cli be ceed
supphing premises wong and operating at Fair tan
GO volts Dia nor greater than Sh volle shal Be grounded. (E) Connected 10 a Ground Ring If connceted to a ground
ting ae in 20.84 AMI, that portion of the grounding alc:
xin No 1: A pur quipped with a ground sero and upp. trote condacior that the sole connection 6 the grotindn
ing on tid St nd ams shall tr guns Secon hall no e ei to be ge han ie Conductor
dod id ima dino ase ©, 07 meg] Dit, he ond tot grog
of 250.167 Birecr-Currem Ground-Fauh Devection.
Spon Xo. 2: A ifr dont oon spt ron an oc
Sem complying with 251207 hail not be quired i br grounded. 8 Ongraunded Systems. Groundfault detection systems
hall be emia for ungroundea sstema.
Esreption So. 3: imum fre alarm cis having a maximum required for ng i
Curent af 00830 anger as ei ia Arch 0 Fo II hall mt ®) Grounded Systems Gioundiauli dtcaion shall be
pink panda permite for ground atea
8 Three Wire, DireckGarrem Sysems, The neutral conduce. (©) Marking, Dice curceat sts shall be egy marked to
tor of al Swi, de stem supplying premises wiring shall be indicato the grounding type at the de source or the fist discon
grounded. ls i etn means of the mac The making shall e of lcs
Ta (oa pote of Connection For Di a speme abit 10 mihean i scone relic
"of Connection for ire Gare fama Sri: Sc NFPA BERLE Set fr Eaearent
(Al Of Promises Source. Di cetcuren sysoms 0 be groun- Sakon he Moko, han Wena fr Ge Hor i
‘ded and supplica Foo an oltpremises sourer shall have the nde.
sn NATAL EECA GO fra
DT Te——
For euns Coa. eos 70 BEST AUTRE ue SoA SSA


--- PAGINA SUCCESSIVA ---

pExt ARTICLE 250 — GROUNDING AND BONDING
250.168 Direc Corre Syme Boning Jumper. For dicci. gear or svichbrard basing no bye pars on the front of the
attori gone ta ate 1 De ed oh dg an dali bre (he dio mcd 10 Me ip
Jorgen sali be od to conci he equipment grounding  Brounding conducior
pte) to the gno clot To EY On Liverani Svbeiboanta pene meter, and
ded To of te ig amos sali nor be amar ian [Sp {beer pect form cen) and potenti ine
the stom grounding clectrode conductor speciticdlin 250.468 [SUF 00 SARA Ah ne Rl on bal noi bare
andshall compl ih 250 ZK, (8 and (C1) {het Cast connceic to he equipment grounding conduetor
150109 Ungroandei Direct. Curren Separaly Derived Mas of nenlating ubber or ox approved means of oot
Siem. Eo ts perito in DUM lor portable neato shall te dor the operator wee The so oge
and vehicle hit gercratari an ungrounde de separatedy to ground pol dor
ord aes supplied from andhalone power source (468 250,076 Cases of samen, Mater and Relys — Opera
35am engine genciato set soll have a rounding clcetrode ga ose etme at and telai bare
thi de ide fe nding of va l'enclo. curreni-camying parts of over 1000 vals to ground, they shal
POE A ELT ey tof pte by a BE, rood
metal parte of quipmeni. The graunding ctiods conduetor Metal, oc imsulating coves of guard. There ass shal not be
ono shall be to the metal colors ai am point on the equipment grounding
iy ewe spera Fromm tos Source 10 The N SRI pion: Couette rd debtor shall lr period ob
conning cam or ven device, or lt sali be TO eb yp perdi ter dia Jor pod
Soc of 3 past dedi stero (hat fas no dicon ment of ite Puttane mtd bo Pn ht mn
necting meansor aveccurrent devices mundo and the grout drictor is obmat ys rlcntion.
The sie of the grounding charode conductor shall be in 250.178 (nsirumeni Squipment Grounding Conductor, The
accordance with 250.168. equipment grounding conductor for secondary cians of
Eran ono and fof aes case hah not De
Te than 12 AMC copper or I ANG arin a coppe
Pan EX. Instruments, Meter, and Ree dad slursinara Ca of rman: Tandon. ins rs
250170 Iosirumen Transformer Grea. Secondary crc nor and sys ht are mound, ool on gen
of cunt and portal intmiment tomers shall be 0 ev be conn 10
grounaca ir the primary wings ate como o circus 2% chard pancs all ot be ese
Soa volts or more to ground and E installed on or in switch equipment gcounding.
ede sha be ground Tipe SÉ
voltage. Part X. Grounding of Systems and Circuits of over 1000 Vols
mtn. Gia ira i NE CI 54180 tH tems cl ate ron dep
no mn op shall comph sith all applicable requirements of 2301 throusgh
quali per 280.174 and with 250 142 through 250.191, which supplement
Exton o. 2: Canes form sends comin a rr. anti modif the pci sections
phate delia configuration sho vot resid © br grounded. 250.182 Derived Neutral Systems. A system neutral point
250.172 taste Tranformer Coes, Cares os frames of deve rom a groundng teint shall be porticato be
instrument Taree shall be coed io re pr use or ground totones 1
rounding conducior il accessibl to her dun QE 250,104 Solidiy Grounded Neural Symes. solid grounded
per neutral sistem shall be pennkied to be cither single point
er Cos o piane of com ls pina of ured on End he
EERE EE Ai
ere ig) Insulation Level The minimum insulation vel for
17100 Vo Lem een i hy oping poh conductoni of sod graded sere shat be
Ing vl ings vocking pars at 1 “oho Is sali be 00 VARE
connected to the oquipment grounding conductor as spedilicd  Ewepson No. 1: For mulbgounded neutral sews as pomited in
Perr SSAC, argos emote prmitnd io wet for 4
(8 Not on Switchgear or Switchboards. [nstruments, meters, NH conducior ofthe following:
Sr calar noi locali ion eg eich oping (1) Sovana ontario
Sims or working parts Al J obs of more rou 13) rue er ar noun ie ours
3nd Scio other Uan quale persons, shall base he (3) Does und pins of or
can and other expo metal parts connected 10 BC UP yy No. 2 ae otters ll pried fo the ntl
rounding. conducoy of urea portioni insialtrd outdons
®) On Swixdgrar or Dea From Schone. [nium
mci and rei hts spate from cute nd poter
Tact connocie recor i the Eco om ic
ror [EE CODE Sreseaion
Copa NEPA Foren use use co NEPA Fre Access fr No! tr ansi tin con cus rs
Eon Coral he pe Sore men 1 a SRR


--- PAGINA SUCCESSIVA ---

ARTICLE 250 — GROUNDING AND BONDING: 20.108
ern So 3 Ti nt ssa cot sll ia Borgio n a mrt gress em, a grin ok
bra ba conturiorif isoltnt rom hs condarion and print rom hk a be mud to bond 1s Neutral ono on ner ped
iat damage Contes owing 400 5 (1900 1 tr ody pues for vemoning

ent Noi See 2284 61 cot cig et Ceo ing wr ir © 8 ging
NSA OTO a ciety
@ ampacky. The neutcal conductor shall have an ampacity 250,486 Grounding Service Supplied  Aermaing Curves
that is no: ks than the nad imposed and be not less than 38% SEM
percent of the ampaciivof the phase conductors. (A Syms with a Grounded Conductor at the Service Point.
Epon: In industrial ana comment pres er engineering Maniac STs rounded at any point and is provid with a
Evin: In tsi ant commer pmb wre ongirrine  grounded Sot a grounded conc
ups, ro pari of Feo ek de elo and toute hein
fondue fo vat fs thon 20 poet of he ampociy of Ihe PHC conductors to cach service disconnecting means and shall be
onto Somacei to cach dsconnecting mean ground FOR:
® Singie-Poim Grounded Neu Sem. If a singlopoins tor trial or bus A man bonding Jumper shall connect
ground neutral som € used, the folloving shall apply the gronda Coico to cach Fermi Wenning
ain send seit sre sl og, cans enclosuce Th grounded conduaor shah be ital
(9A angle poiti god tsps tal be per BE ke a O o N mt
pel ngi of the solely round icc conductors) shall be the beer
a A scparatelederived sister of that dott ined by 250.144 or TOWRA Do (1 (21
eo mn] or oP pon: or more wk disconneciing means ae red in a
Sed netta! datos at the source of the single. "gl amt ind foro ar uke gunn, shall be erited
Ft paria do font ite i onto) © The ames common pond
@ A grounding cocoa shall prow forthe scr, AUDI) Gnd or bus. The erly shall owt a in toni
© A Sounding cloctode condudor shall connec the 1 up for acing the ornata counitari © te atea
groanding Ciro to the sutra neutral conduce ee
C0) bonding jumpee shall comnct dic ip ground (1) Sain For a Single Racevay or Ovebead Conductor, The
5, ng sonducter to he grounding clecirode conductor canken conducior shall noi De smaller than the roused
© an cqupment poinding er shall be provided to Cin oct conducior specified in Table 90 950)
Pri sinucture, and equipment enciozure e e e ren
3 neutral conductor shall only de tequirca il phases git Te uo € than the bo
Road ag suPpIS. i
7) Thenemal conduce, if provided, shall be iubaicdand (2) Furabel Conductor in Two or More Racevays or Over.
ohio from cart excep at one location brad Condurtore the ungrounded so eat ance conduc.
©) An equipment grounding conductor hall be run vith the tore ate tale in parallel in two or more tacoma of as
phase conductore and shall comply ith all of she ole. vecbead paslil conducion, the rounded condos shall
Le also be installed in parallel The se of the rounded conduc:
a shall noc commaouslond, tor in cach racova or vhost shall be sed on he ital
3 g atar mil arca of th paral ungrounded condueory In the
È. Shanibebare, mero or ria So mila epg ns io
€. Shall bascampaciny fo Farts agent cory omy oc vee,
(€) Muligrounded Newt Smema, If a muigrounded .
© Masigrounded Newt Sena lE fn Note, See OOC) Foe emt srs
Toe neutral conductor di a soll grounded nera!) DeltaConnacted Service, The greed conducior of a 3.
estera shall be permis to be grounded at more i 3 Delta. Compe Ths recor ofa
phase, Suite dela service shall back an Spar not es than
one poli Groundng shall be pre at One ar more PRE, Sie dela serve sii
of the following locatione: that of the ungrounded conductors.
a Tarsformen suppling conductors to a bulding or (5) Impedance Grounded Sysems. Impedance, grounded
aber ste PED tomar be installed in accordano th 280 37.5
b. Underground crauits # the neutral comduator i3 (8) Syacma Without a Grounded Condacior at the Service
erposca Point, li an ac scr isgreunded at ano por and ir not prov
=, Ovethead ecu instal ouidonci cd Mit a gone condudior ai the anice poi, a BRL
(2) Themultgeainded era condacior shall be pranded Se ae poet qa le eet oe fo me
at ca anes and at thc additional WET br e pia eh et Se oe
connection to a rou cleczode and pret pu Aisonnecing mean fd
9 Alas one grounding clero shall be installo and eni grounding sonduao sein or bus. The supp
Comected tothe mound neural conductor ert ang EE i de O oc ue The Pupp
00 Mm 1300 280 AG) (1) through (515)
(9) The maximum distance benscenany ta adiaceni clectco.
«es shah not be more han 400 m (130010. Exoption ft or more moe disconnecting means ave sid in a
(51 in a muigrounded SG cable ys the shilling ge asd Tid for uve a servite equipment di A dn pried
shall be grounded al cach cable oi hat is oposite 0 come e OH)-4is Donn J D he anemie; common
personnel contact equipment gana tomaia or Bit
sesti NATAL EECA GO 10168
Copri NEPA Fore use ue or NEPA Free Access str No: fr GE 1 Gu gione cranny
Far aa ono ae vietare om APS use coma RE


--- PAGINA SUCCESSIVA ---

mm ARTICLE 250 — GROUNDING AND BONDING:
(0) Sain For a Singie Racevay or Ovesbead Conductor, The shall be conncated by an equipment grounding conducio to
ppb si Bonding Romper shall not be smaller than the ibe pini at which the aston mel ifpodance È groundea,
cenuitca grounding Seed conductor speed in Table
AB AOACII) bt sll nor be cose to be larger than the (©) Ground Fuh Current. The voltage developed betwen
est ungrounded sevice entrance conductorts) the pariabl or mobile equipment frame and ground by the
largest ung How of maximum groundiault current shall not cxeved
@ Fan Condurtore în Tuo or More Ram or Or. 100
Sead Canicors. he ungroanded serv icon rante oni: i
tors are installed in parallel in two or mere racowayy or 2) Ground Fan Deacon and Relig: Croma fault detec:
ov Coton, pple ponding pe tah on are ving dale provided Mortal decent
Sh be Tio in parallel Tin a of the mpl pond 207 cOmponentofa stem over 1009 ols ha hs dep a
Jumper in cach racvay o orcad shall be based on the tray 370und Bul. The continue of the equipment grounding
circular mil area of the parallel ungrounded conductors in the Conductor shall be continuously monitored so as to automati
ren or orerbean, al indicatori in ZOO WACANID. po nor al decneegite th circuit o the em vec 1000 ols tothe
a or over portable Robie amen Tp of comit
ed pene roa ime gondii
® toy ro ems. Impedano gio N
pila pier tm et cote ao, © Inttion Thc grounding chiro to which ie pos,
250187 Impedance Grounded Suems, Impedance grounded shall be isobied from and sepacatod in he ground by at east
seme in which a groumding impedance uke, Spl a AD m 21 0) from any other ges or pent groundng
meio, ok the rund 1 Sheath be emi God ifali clcetrode, and bere all be no dicci connection beteen he
of the folloving conditions are mer grounding cicctroder, such ar buried pipe and fence, and o
(1) The conditions of maintenance and supervision ensure forth.
that only quali peso service the installation, (P) Tring Cable and Couplers. Trang cable and couples
2) Ground detoctors ace installed on the tem. of spstome over 1000 volts for interconnection of portable oc
@  Linctoncutcal loads are not served, mobile couipment shall meet the cequirements of Part If of
Impedance grounded sprtems shall comply with 2501874) ‘Artide 400 for cables and 998 for couplers
heh (DI 250.150 Grounding of Equipmem.
8 Location, The grounding impedance device shall be (a) Equipmem Grounding. Al non-currcntcarcying metal
ated ocr pound ag choo coo a te gpm Crowning. i aa mel
impcdance grounding conductor connected to the sistem fencos, housings, cndosuces, and supporting stmuctuccs shall be
psc; paia)
8) nnd, The impedance grounding conductor shall be pion i iotaind fior quand and cated su td ant person in
insulatod for the Am neutal OIE Cote with mn ranno! const such meio! part ie dr equi
Sion: A da inpedanie ound ondutor ak eerie Ege he mest patri Ali puta dr pened
he dar portion of the grading impedanee device arid cond tar me Infomaional Note Se 230.110, Exception Nn, 2, for pole:
noti a mati; Ani son and eur Sarat fm te Onan diri apporti
anon cous or. {B) Grounding Electrode Conductor. If a grounding clecirade
tai Soc The lias nel whic a Sphac COMM CORNCCS CUTER Metal PE to
me Et vale ground, the grounding lode conductor tal be sacd in
(© Syme Neural Pim Connection, The mst neurali Seconda i Table 29008, based on he sac of the beget
oi hah roi be connector re, cnc Ibrough te Inground rie, fede, ox brace, son
point hak gn Sugobing the equipment The grounding citezrade conductor
SHER nol be smaller than 6 AWG: copper or 4 AMG aluminum
©) Equipmem Grounding Concord de cso Shino
ing conductor: shall be permiioa to be bar and shall be cee N i
di ted to the ground bus and grounding cloctzade (©) Equipment Grounding Condunor, Equipment grounding
ial comeatea to the ground bus and grounding clcczrode (©) Eup Grouting Gomer. biped
250180 Grounding of Syms Sappiring Pore or Moe), Jeni, SUPE seem shall nei he salle: on
Papen Sysco upping Portabi oF mobile equipment
EP oli e uppling paras ac mall OC RG ppt ord WG aluminum ar copperla shina
at, shall compl with 250 18) Theough (1 (21 Sbielded Cable. The meta lic insulation shicd enciecing
ile Equi the current arying conducioes hall be perito to be wk
35 Porable or Mobile Equipmen Portal: or mobile equi. ving pi
out onee 1000 vole sali be opi from om bang fe an equipment groundingeondudor 1 ed fo caring
ews conductor grounded dough an pede Wa det qu damaging the metalli she The metalli tape len
conncetod stem aves 1000 volts & used to ppl portable or
mobik equipment, a system neutral point and. associated shicld are drain vice insulation shield shall rot be wed aan
neutral condor shall be dere ©quipmcni grounding cor 5
® Exposed Non Cares. Carrping Mest Pan, Exposcd non
Cutrenicaming metal pars of pottable ox mobile equipment
pes [Tr ——
Copp NEPA Foren use oo NEPA Free Access gt Not dr ai 40% our GHG Gr Gn
For vreune Coa. Seed oarS 70 BEST AUTRE ue SO CSTR


--- PAGINA SUCCESSIVA ---

NE ZOROUNDINGANDBONDING 0000 ts0lsa
® Suing Equipment grounding conductor alle sed in (2 d bare overhead mnductoni avs the fence, bond
Sodano ene T9152 basa on he carte ming oF Apes Sol neath am coche of ceo
ide fuse or le vce Sg of te priv ray © Ce abe hao gal support post ach
reocic Sr Bs mt
ton Ne: Th en aren igo imate plc support
eT ee Pingo NE
i Clio Cl Sie lin to nw got or othee peri in the onc shall be bonded
dari pata aloe E am gor O OPE e ree ols
250.91 Grodin Syusem Aberin Carey Subsatons (5) Toe dog DE Selo dot acs shall
Forse ua ione stereo EE Eran A
Rian oa aie © Th red are ame sho Sl be rod
formation! Nite: See IEEE 80, EE Guide for Softy in dC to the grounding cleetrode stem.
Stino a Feet a he de tema Ags pertonnerl inder engineering superio
uniti quand. shall be periti for graunding or bonding of metal ce.
250.194 Grounding and Bonding of Fences and Other Metal Unforaational Note Ne. 1: A socondacting fen of section
Structures. Mest fences enclosing, and Other metal Smctuecs ay pin wfc sabato For Loaner of shai tn mer arcs.
in x scum, riali vel apna eel oie Keo Ser IEE 00. IRA nt fe i 10
oc ete obo Ee at 4 mali A Pe
(A) Mena Fencen iL metal fs are cared win m i eo conducive metal st
{8 ft ofthe Srp eer condurton or mpm, dre (2) eS ee e IAT
fence shll be badd to the grounding cleo mem vidi Lng SURE iin 2A
fen shall be bed to the gun om gm oni of cymes and ore
pe bonding jumpet to contact by persons, shall be bonded 1 the grounding cloc-
1 Conding umes shall be ako a cach foe comer oben ri
em (10 1 mrt along ie ene
[EN prs
Commi EPA Ferre sen EP Fe ess tr ho rs ou car nis
PEARS AAPA SA
