 Article 505 • Zone 0.1. and 2 Locations
 505.1
(C) Connection to Grounding Electrodes. Where connection
to a grounding electrode is required, the grounding electrode shall
be as specified in 250.52(A)(1), (A)(2), (A)(3), and (A)(4) and
shall comply with 250.30(A)(4). Sections 250.52(A)(5), (A)(7),
and (A)(8) shall not be used if any of the electrodes specified in
250.52(A)(1), (A)(2), (A)(3), or (A)(4) are present.
Where a grounding electrode is necessary for associated appara
tus. the electrodes specified in 250.52(A)(1) through (A)(4)
(metal underground water pipes, metal in-ground support struc
tures, concrete-encased electrodes, and ground rings) are
required to be used if present. These electrodes usually provide
lower resistance grounds than ground rods and plate electrodes,
which are covered in 250.52(A)(5) and (A)(7).
See also
504.50(B), Informational Note, for where this connection
might be required
504.60 Bonding.
(A) Intrinsically Safe Apparatus. Intrinsically safe apparatus,
if of metal, shall be bonded in the hazardous (classified) location
in accordance with 501.30(B), 502.30(B), 503.30(B), 505.30(3),
or 5(M-30(B), as applicable.
(B) Metal Raceways. Where metal raceways are used for
intrinsically safe system wiring, bonding at all ends of the
raceway, regardless of the location, shall be in accordance with
501.30(B), 502.30(B), 503.30(B), 505.30(B), or 506.30(B), as
applicable.
504.70 Sealing. Conduits and cables that are required to be
sealed by 501.15, 502.15, 505.16, and 506.16 shall be sealed
to minimize the passage of gases, vapors, or dusts. Such seals
shall not be required to be explosionproof or flameproof but
shall be identified for the purpose of minimizing passage of
gases, vapors, or dusts under normal operating conditions and
shall be accessible.
Exception: Seals shall not be required for enclosures that con
tain only intrinsically safe apparatus, except as required by
501.17.
The use of an IS system does not remove the need to seal inter
connecting cables. Any cable capable of transmitting material to
another location must be sealed. These seals are not required
to be explosionproof or flameproof, but they must be identified to
minimize the passage of gases or dust and must be accessible.
504.80 IdentiBcation. Labels required by this section shall
be suitable for the environment where they are installed, with
consideration given to exposure to chemicals and sunlight.
(A) Terminals. Intrinsically safe circuits shall be identified at
terminal and junction locations in a manner that is intended to
prevent unintentional interference with the circuits during test
ing and servicing.
 (B) Wiring. Raceways, cable trays, and other wiring methods
 for intrinsically safe system wiring shall be identified with per
 manently affixed labels with the wording "Intrinsic Safety Wir
 ing" or equivalent. The labels shall be located so as to be visible
 after installation and placed so that they may be readily traced
 through the entire length of the installation. Intrinsic safety circuit
 labels shall appear in every section of the wiring system that is
 separated by enclosures, walls, partitions, or floors. Spacing
 between labels shall not be more than 7.5 m (25 ft).
 Exception: Circuits run underground shall be permitted to be
 identified where they become accessible after emergence from
 the ground.
 Informational Note No. 1: Wiring methods permitted in unclas
 sified locations may be used for intrinsically safe systems in
 hazardous (classified) locations. Without labels to identify the
 application of the wiring, enforcement authorities cannot deter
 mine that an installation is in compliance with this Code.
 Informational Note No. 2: In unclassified locations, identification
 is necessary to ensure that nonintrinsically safe wire will not be
 inadvertently added to existing raceways at a later date.
 (C) Color Coding. Color coding shall be permitted to identify
 intrinsically safe conductoi^ where they are colored light blue and
 where no other conductors colored light blue are used. Likewise,
 color coding shall be permitted to identify raceways, cable trays,
 and junction boxes where they are colored light blue and contain
 only intrinsically safe wiring.
 ARTICLE
 505
 Zone 0,1, and 2 Locations
 A 505.1 Scope.
 ^
 (A) Covered. This article covers the requirements for the zone
 classification system as an alternative to the division classifica
 tion system covered in 500.1 for electrical and electronic equip
 ment and wiring for all voltages where fire or explosion hazards
 might exist due to flammable gases, vapors, or liquids for the
 following:
 (1) Zone 0
 hazardous (classified) locations
 (2) Zone 1 hazardous (classified) locations
 (3) Zone 2 hazardous (classified) locations
 Informational Note No. I: The term "Class I" was originally
 included as a prefix to Zone 0, Zone I, and Zone 2 locations
 and references as an identifier for flammable gases, vapors, or
 liquids to differentiate from Class II and Class III locations. Zone
 0, Zone 1, and Zone 2 only apply to flammable gases, vapors, or
 liquids, so the "Class I" prefix is redundant and has been deleted.
 However, the marking of "Class I" is left as an optional marking
 within this Article.
 Informational Note No. 2: See NFPA A91-2d\, Recommended
 Practicefor the Classification of Flammable Liquids, Gases, or
 Vapors and of Hazardous (Classified) Locations for Electrical
 Installations in Chemical Process Areas, for extracted text that is
National Electrical Code Handbook 2023
 665
505.4
 Article 505 • Zone 0,1, and 2 Locations
followed by a reference in brackets. Only editorial changes were
made to the extracted text to make it consistent with this Code.
Informational Note No. 3; See Article 100 for the definition of
restricted industrial establishment [as applied to hazardous (clas
sified) locations}.
The requirements in this article parallel those in Articles 500 and
501. The zone classification concept, based on the standards
developed by the International Electrotechnical Commission
(lEC), offers an alternative method of classifying Class I hazard
ous locations. The lEC classification scheme includes under
ground mines, whereas in the United States, underground mines
are under the jurisdiction of the Mine Safety and Health Adminis
tration (MSHA) and are outside the scope of the NEC®.
N (B) Not Covered. This article does not cover electrical and
electronic equipment and wiring in the following:
(1) Class I, Class II, or Class III, Division 1 or Division 2
hazardous (classified) locations
(2) Zone 20, Zone 21, or Zone 22 hazardous (classified)
locations
(3) Locations subject to the unique risk and explosion haz
ards associated with explosives, pyrotechnics, and blasting
agents
(4) Locations where pyrophoric materials are the only materi
als used or handled
(5) Features of equipment that involve nonelectrical potential
sources of ignition (e.g., couplings, pumps, gearboxes,
brakes, hydraulic and pneumatic motors, fans, engines,
compressors)
Informational Note No. 1: Common nonelectrical potential
sources of ignition include hot surfaces and mechanically gen
erated sparks.
Informational Note No. 2: See ANSl/UL 80079-36, Explosive
Atmospheres —
 Part 36: Non-Electrical Equipment/or Explosive
Atmospheres — Basic Method and Requirements, and ANSI/UL
80079-37, Explosive Atmospheres — Part 37: Non-Electrical
Equipment for Explosive Atmospheres —
 Non-Electrical Type of
Protection Constructional Safety "c "
 Control of Ignition Source
"h". Liquid Immersion "k", for additional information.
•
A 505.4 Documentation. Areas designated as hazardous
(classified) locations or as unclassified shall be documented on an
area classification drawing and other associated documentation.
This documentation shall be made available to the AHJ and
those authorized to design, install, inspect, maintain, or operate
electrical equipment at the location.
Infomiational Note No. I; See ANSI/API RP 505, Recommended
Practice for Classification of Locations for Electrical Instal
lations at Petroleum Facilities Classified as Class 1, Zone 0,
Zone I,
 Zone2; ANSI/ISA60079-10-1 (\2.24.0\),Explosive
Atmospheres —
 Part 10-J: Classification of areas — Explosive
gas atmospheres: and El 15, Model Code of Safe Practice, Part
15: Area Clmsification for Installations Handling Flammable
Fluids, for examples of area classification drawings.
Informational Note No. 2: See 505.8(I)(2). (I)(3), or (I)(4) for
information on where gas detection equipment is used as a means
 of protection. The documentation typically includes the type of
 detection equipment, its listing, the installation location(s). the
 alarm and shutdown criteria, and the calibration frequency.
 Informational Note No. 3: See NFPA 497, Recommended Prac
 ticefor the Classification of Flammable Liquids, Gases, or Vapors
 and of Hazardous (Classified) Locationsfor Electrical Installa
 tions in Chemical Process Areas: ANSI/API RP 505. Recom
 mended Practice for Classification of Locations for Electrical
 Installations at Petroleum Facilities Classified as Class f, Zone 0,
 Zone I, and Zone 2: ANSI/ISA 6(X)79-I0-i (12.24.01), Explo.sive
 Atmospheres —
 Part JO-I: Classification of areas —
 Explosive
 gas atmospheres: and El 15, Model Code of Safe Practice, Part
 15: Area Classification for Installations Handling Flammable
 Fluids, for information on the classification of locations.
 Informational Note No. 4; See NFPA 77, Recommended Practice
 on Static Electricity: NFPA 780. Standard for the Installation
 of Lightning Protection Systems, and API RP 2003, Protection
 Against Ignitions Arising Out ofStatic, Lightning, andStray Cur
 rents, for information on protection against static electricity and
 lightning hazards in hazardous (classified) locations.
 Informational Note No. 5: See NFPA 30, Flammable and Com
 bustible Liquids Code, and ANSI/API RP 505. Recommended
 Practice for Classification of Locations for Electrical Installa
 tions at Petroleum Facilities Classified as Class I, Zone 0, Zone
 I, and Zone 2, for information on ventilation.
 Informational Note No. 6: See ANSI/API RP 14FZ, Recom
 mended Practice for Design, Installation, and Maintenance of
 Electrical Systems for Fixed and Floating Offshore Petroleum
 Facilitiesfor Unclassified and Class I, Zone 0, Zone }, and Zone
 2 Locations, for information on electrical systems for hazardous
 (classified) locations on offshore oil and gas producing platforms,
 drilling rigs, and workover rigs.
 Informational Note No. 7: See UL \ 20\0\, Definitions and Infor
 mation Pertaining to Electrical Apparatus in Hazardous Loca
 tions, and ANSIAJL 60079-0. Explosive Atmospheres — Part 0:
 Equipment — General Requirements, for further information
 on the general application of electrical equipment in hazardous
 (classified) lections.
 Informational Note No. 8: See ANSI/UL ]2\2I)'i, Portable/Per
 sonal Electronic Products Suitablefor Use in Class /, Division 2,
 Class I, Zone 2. Class II, Division 2. Class HI, Division I, Class
 III, Division 2, Zone 21 and Zone 22 Hazardous (Classified)
 Locations, for information on whether portable or transportable
 equipment having self-contained power supplies, such as battery^
 operated equipment, could potentially become an ignition source
 in hazardous (classified) locations.
 Informational Note No. 9: See ANSI/UL 60079-28, Explosive
 Atmospheres — Part 28: Protection of Equipment and Trans
 mission Systems Using Optical Radiation, for information con
 cerning the installation of equipment utilizing optical emissions
 technology (such as laser equipment) that could potentially
 become an ignition source in hazardous (classified) locations.
 Informational Note No. 10: See lEC/IEEE 60079-30-2, Explosive
 Atmospheres — Part 30-2: Electrical Resistance Trace Heating
 —Application Guidefor Design, Installation and Maintenance,
 for information on electrical resistance trace heating for hazard
 ous (classified) locations.
 Informational Note No. 11: See IEEE 844.2/CSA C293.2, IEEE/
 CS4 Standard for Skin Effect Trace Heating of Pipelines, Vessels,
 Equipment, and Structures — Application Guide for Design,
 Installation, Testing, Commissioning, and Maintenance, for
 information on electric skin effect trace heating for haz^dous
 (classified) locations.
666
 2023 National Electrical Code Handbook
 Article 505 • Zone 0,1. and 2 Locations
 505.5
InfonnationatNote No. 12: See IEEE 844.4/CSAC293.4, IEEE/
CSA Standard for Impedance Heating of Pipelines and Equip
ment — Application Guide for Design, Installation. Testing,
Commissioning, and Maintenance, for information on electric
impedanr.e heating for hazardous (classified) locations.
505.5 Classifications of Locations.
A (A) General.
N (I) Hazardous (Classified) Locations. Locations shall be
classified depending on the properties of the flammable ga.ses,
flammable liquid-produced vapors, combustible liquid-produced
vapors, combustible dusts, or fibers/flyings that could be present
and the likelihood that a flammable or combustible concentra
tion or quantity is present. Each room, section, or area shall be
considered individually in determining its classification.
Informational Note No. I: See 505.7 for restrictions on area
classification.
Informational Note No. 2: Through the exercise of ingenuity
in the layout of electrical installations for hazardous (clas
sified) locations, it is frequently possible to locate much of
the equipment in a reduced level of classification or in an
unclassified location to reduce the amount of special equip
ment required.
iV (2) Refrigerant Machinery Rooms Using Ammonia. Refrig
erant machinery rooms that contain ammonia refrigeration sys
tems and are equipped with adequate mechanical ventilation that
operates continuously or is initiated by a detection system at a
concentration not exceeding 150 ppm shall be permitted to be
classified as "unclassified" locations.
Informational Note: See ANSI/IIAR 2, Standard for Safe Design
of Closed-Circuit Ammonia Refrigeration Systems, for infor
mation on the classification and ventilation of areas involving
closed-circuit ammonia refrigeration systems.
(B) Zone 0, G and 2 Locations. Zone 0,1, and 2
 locations are
those in which flammable gases or vapors are or may be present
in the air in quantities sufficient to produce explosive or ignitible
mixtures. Zone 0,1, and 2 locations shall include those specified
in 505.5(B)(1), (B)(2), and (B)(3).
A (1) ZoneO. A Zone Olocation is a location in which one of the
following conditions exists:
(1) Ignitible concentrations of flammable gases or vapors are
present continuously
(2) Ignitible concentrations of flammable gases or vapors are
present for long periods of time
Informational Note No. I:
 ANSI/API RP 505, Recommended
Practice for Classification of Locations for Electrical Installa
tions (a Petroleum Facilities Classified as Class I, Zone 0, Zone
1, and Zone 2, and ANSI/ISA 60079-10-1 (12.24.01), Explosive
Atmospheres —
 Part lO-l: Classification ofAreas — explosive
gas atmospheres, for information for when flammable ga^S
or vapore are present continuously or for long pericxis of time.
Informational Note No. 2; This classification includes die.fol-
towing locations:
 (T) Iilside vented tanks of Vessel that cdntairi vdlatire'flM|
 mable liquids
 I
 (2) Inside inadequately vented spraying or coating enclosure!
 where volatile flammable solvents are used
 |
 (3) Between the inner and outer roof sections of a floating roof
 tank containing volatile flammable liquids
 t
 (4) Inside open vessels, tanks, and pits containing volatile
 flammable liquids
 |
 (5) Interior of an exhaust duct used to vent ignitible concentral
 tions of gases or vapors
 |
 (6) Inside inadequately ventilated enclosures that contain norl
 mally venting instruments using or analyzing flammable
 fluids and venting to the inside of the enclosures ,
 (2) Zone 1. A Zone 1 location is a location
 (1) In which ignitible concentrations of flammable gases or
 vapors are likely to exist under normal operating condi
 tions; or
 (2) In which ignitible concentrations of flammable gases or
 vapors may exist frequently because of repair or mainte
 nance operations or because of leakage; or
 (3) In which equipment is operated or processes are carried
 on, of such a nature that equipment breakdown or faulty
 operations could result in the release of ignitible con
 centrations of flammable gases or vapors and also cause
 simultaneous failure of electrical equipment in a mode
 to cause the electrical equipment to become a source of
 ignition; or
 (4) That is adjacent to a Zone 0
 location from which ignitible
 concentrations of vapors could be communicated, unless
 communication is prevented by adequate positive pres
 sure ventilation from a source of clean air and effective
 safeguards against ventilation failure are provided.
 Informational Note No. 1: Normal operation is considered the
 situation when plant equipment is operating within its design
 parameters. Minor releases of flammable material may be part
 of normal operations. Minor releases include the releases from
 mechanical packings on pumps. Failures that involve repair or
 shutdown (such as the breakdown of pump seals and flange
 gaskets, and spillage caused by accidents) are not considered
 normal operation.
 Informational Note No. 2; This classification usually includes
 tiK following locations:
 (1) Where volatile flammable liquids or liquefied flammabl^
 gases are transferred from one container to another
 ;
 (2) Areas in die vicinity of spraying and painting operationSc-
 where flammable solvents are used
 (3) Adequately ventilated drying rooms or compartment for
 evaporation of flammable solvents
 (4) Adequately ventilated locations containing fat and oil extrac
 tion equipment using volatile flammable solvents
 (5) Portions of cleaning and dyeing plants where volatile flam
 mable liquids are used
 (6) Adequately ventilated gas generator rooms and other porr*
 tions of gas manufacturing plants where flammable gas mighi^
National Electrical Code Handbook 2023
 667
505.6
 Article 505 • Zone 0,1, and 2 Locations
(7)
volatile flammable liquids
(8) Interiors of refrigerators and freezers in which volatile flam
mable materials are vStored in the open, lightly stoppered, or
in easily ruptured containers
(9) Other locations where ignitible concentrations of flammable
vapors or gases are likely to occur in the course of normal
operation ^t are not classified Zone 0
(3) Zone 2. A Zone 2 location is a location
(1) In which ignitible concentrations of flammable gases or
vapors are not likely to occur in normal operation and, if
they do occur, will exist only for a short period; or
(2) In which volatile flammable liquids, flammable gases,
or flammable vapors are handled, processed, or used but
in which the liquids, gases, or vapors normally are con
fined within closed containers of closed systems from
which they can escape, only as a result of accidental
rupture or breakdown of the containers or system, or
as a result of the abnormal operation of the equipment
with which the liquids or gases are handled, processed,
or used; or
(3) In which ignitible concentrations of flammable gases or
vapors normally are prevented by positive mechanical ven
tilation but which may become hazardous as a result of
failure or abnormal operation of the ventil^on equipment;
or
(4) That is adjacent to a Zone 1 location, from which ignitible
concentrations of flammable gases or vapore could be com
municated, unless such communication is prevented by
adequate positive-pressure ventilation from a source of
clean air and effective safeguards against ventilation failure
are provided.
Informational Note: The Zone 2 classification usually includes
locations where volatile flammable liquids or flammable gases or
vapors are used but which would become hazardous only in case
of an accident or of some unusual operating condition.
A 505.6 Material Groups. For purposes of testing, approval, and
area classification, various air mixtures (not oxygen enriched)
shall be grouped as required in 505.6(A), (B), and (C).
Informational Note No. 1: See 90.2(D). Ihis Code does art apply
to Maturations untfegitmnd in mines. Group I is intended for
use in describing atmospheres that contain firedamp; a mixture
of gases, composed mostly of methane, found underground, usu
ally in mines.
hrformatibna! Note No.'2r See ANSI/UL 60079-11, Expldsivm
Atmospheres—Part J1: Equipment Protection by Intrinsic Safet^
"i". The gas and vapor subdivision is based on the maximunr
experimental safe gap (MESG), minimum igniting current (MIC)|
OT both.
 f
Informational Note No. 3: See ISO/IEC 80079-20-1, Explosiv^
atmospheres — Part 20-1: Material characteristics for gas em<k
wpor classification —
 Test methods and data, for inforaiation oi|
the test equipment for determining MIC in the classification of
gases or vapors according to their maximum experimental safe
gaps and minimum igniting currents.
 Group II is currently subdivided into
 Group IIA, Group IIB, and Group IXC. Prior marking require
 ments permitted some types of protection to be marked without
 a subdivision, showing only Group 11.
 Note No, 5: It is necessary that the meanings of
 the different equipment markings and Group II classifications
 be carefully observed to avoid confusion with Class I, ESvision
 1 and DMaon 2, Groups A, B, C, and D.
 Zone 0, 1, and 2, groups shall be as follows:
 A (A) Group lie. Atmospheres containing acetylene, hydrogen,
 or flammable gas, flammable liquid-produced vapor, or com
 bustible liquid-produced vapor mixed with air that may bum
 or explode, having either a maximum experimental safe gap
 (MESG)
 value less than or equal to 0.50 mm or minimum ignit
 ing current (MIC)
 ratio less than or equal to 0.45. [497:3.3.5.2.3]
 Informational Note:
 i^Cto.6(A)(l) and (A)(2) for
 ^oup A and Class I, Group B
 classifications. Groi^ IIC is equiv
 alent to a combination of Class I, Group A and Class I, Group B.
 (B) Group IIB. Atmospheres containing acetaldehyde, eth-
 ylene, or flammable gas, flammable liquid-produced vapor, or
 combustible liquid-produced vapor mixed with air that may
 burn or explode, having either maximum experimental safe gap
 (MESG) values greater than 0.50 mm and less than or equal to
 0.90 mm or minimum igniting current ratio (MIC ratio) greater
 than 0.45 and less than or equal to 0.80. [497:3.3.5.2.2]
 Informational NcMe No.T: See 5tX).6(AX3)i Class I, Group
 Iquivalent to Group IIB,
 iofonnational
 No. 2; Class I, Grcmp B is equivalent to Grov^
 (C) Group IIA. Atmospheres containing acetone, ammo
 nia, ethyl alcohol, gasoline, methane, propane, or flammable
 gas, flammable liquid-produced vapor, or combustible liquid-
 produced vapor mixed with air that may bum or explode, having
 either a maximum experimental safe gap (MESG)
 value greater
 than 0.90 mm or minimum igniting current (MIC)
 ratio greater
 than 0.80. [497:3.3.5.2.1]
 Informational Note: See ^,6(A)(4>.Class I, Group D
 is e<piiv»-
 nttt to Groupiii^.
 The zone classification system for gases is different from the
 division system used in Articles 500 and 501. Commentary
 Table 505.1 contrasts the classification of the two systems. Note
 that Group I is used for the classification of gases normally
 COMMENTARYTABLE 505.1 Comparison of Groups Defined Under
 the Zone and Division Classification Systems
 Zone Classification
 Division Classification
 Group IIC
 Groups A and 8
 Group IIB
 Group C
 Group IIA
 Group D
 Group 1
 Group D
668
 2023 National Electrical Code Handbook
 Article 505 • Zone 0,1, and 2 Locations
 505.8
encountered in mining applications. The group consists primarily
of methane, which is known in some countries as firedamp.
A 505.7 Special Precaution. This article requires equipment
construction and installation that ensures safe performance under
conditions of proper use and maintenance.
Informational Note No. 1: It is important that inspection authori
ties and users exercise more than ordinary care regarding the
installation and maintenance of electrical equipment in hazardous
(classified) locations.
Informational Note No. 2: Electrical equipment that is defKsn-
dehl on the protection technique permitted by 505.8(A) might
not be suitable for use at temperatures lower than -2D°C (-4°F)
unless they are identified for use at lower temperatures. Low
ambieiit conditions require special consideration. At low
ambient temperatures, flammable concentrations of vapors
might not exist in a location classified at normal ambient
temperature.
(A) Implementation of Zone Classification System. Clas
sification of areas, engineering and design, selection of equip
ment and wiring methods, installation, and inspection shall be
performed by qualified persons.
(B) Dual Classification. In instances ofareas within the same
facility classified separately, Zone 2
 locations shall be permitted
to abut, but not overlap, Class I, Division 2 locations. Zone 0
 or
Zone 1 locations shall not abut Class I, Division 1 or Division
2
locations.
An installation is permitted to be designed using either the clas
sification scheme of Article 500 or the classification scheme of
Article 505. Both schemes cannot be used for classifying the
same area.
(C) Reclassification Permitted. AClassI, Division lor Divi
sion 2 location shall be permitted to be reclassified as a Zone
0, Zone 1, or Zone 2 location, provided all of the space that is
classified because of a single flammable gas or vapor source is
reclassified under the requirements of this article.
(D) Solid Obstacles. Flameproof equipment with flanged
joints shall not be installed such that the flange openings are
closer than the distances shown in Table 505.7(D) to any solid
obstacle that is not a part of the equipment (such as steelworks,
walls, weather guards, mounting brackets, pipes, or other elec
trical equipment) unless the equipment is listed for a smaller
distance of separation.
TABLE 505.7(D) Minimum Distance of Obstructions from
Flameproof "d" Flange Openings
Gas Group
 Minimum Distance
 mm
 in.
 lie
 40
 1%
 IIB
 30
 IMe
 llA
 10
 "/64
 (E) Simultaneous Presence of Flammable Gases and Com
 bustible Dusts or Fibers/Flyings. Where flammable gases,
 combustible dusts, or fibers/flyings are or may be present at the
 same time, the simultaneous presence shall be considered during
 the selection and installation of the electrical equipment and the
 wiring methods, including the determination of the safe operating
 temperature of the electrical equipment.
 (F) Available Fault Current for Type of Protection "e".
 Unless listed and marked for connection to circuits with
 higher available fault current, the available fault current for
 electrical equipment using type of protection "e" for the field
 wiring connections in Zone 1 locations shall be limited to
 10,000 rms symmetrical amperes to reduce the likelihood
 of ignition of a flammable atmosphere by an arc during a
 short-circuit event.
 Informational Note: Limitation of the available fault current to
 this level may require the application of current-limiting fuses
 or current-limiting circuit breakers.
 The limit on available short-circuit current is due to the rating of
 terminals and terminal blocks of equipment evaluated under UL
 508A. Standard for Industrial Control Panels, using the Type "e"
 protection technique.
 505.8 Protwrtion Techniques. Acceptable protection techniques
 for electrical and electronic equipment in hazardous (classified)
 locations shall be as described in 505.8(A) through (Q).
 Informatic^dNt^bto. 1: See ANSMJL I!M101, Definitions and
 Information Pertaining to Electrical Equipment in Hazardous Ldca-
 fionSy and ./WSI/UL 60079-0, Explosive Atmospheres — Part 0:
 Equipment — General Requirements, for ^ditional iiiformaticm.
 hiformation^ Note No. 2: See Chapter 9, Table 13 for descrip
 tions of subdivisions of protection techniques.
 Where the area is classified in accordance with the zone method.
 505.8(A) through (N)
 identify the methods for protecting electri
 cal and electronic equipment. Many of the protection methods
 are different from those in Article 501, and only those specified
 are suitable for zone installations. Of the many protection tech
 niques. intrinsic safety, flameproof, and increased safety are the
 most common for Zone 1 locations.
 See also
 I 505.9(C) for marking requirements
 (A) Flameproof Enclosure "d". This protection technique
 shall be permitted for equipment in Zone 1 or Zone 2 locations.
 Equipment identified as flameproof is similar to explosionproof
 equipment. Flameproof protection is commonly combined with
 increased safety protection. For example, motor control and
 other switching contacts are commonly protected by flameproof
 enclosures, with the field wiring terminals protected in a separate
 but attached enclosure by increased safety. The conductors
 between the enclosures are protected by flameproof feed-
 through insulators. The equipment shown in Exhibit 505.1
 employs this combination of protection techniques.
National Electrical Code Handbook 2023
 669
505.8
 Article 505 • Zone 0.1, and 2 Locations
EXHIBIT 505.1 Typical control stations with the combination of
flameproof and increased safety types of protection suitable for use
In Zone 1 areas. CCourfesy of Eaton, Crouse-Hinds Division)
(B) Pressurized Enclosure "p". This protection technique
shall be permitted for equipment in those Zone 1 or Zone 2
locations for which it is identified.
(C) Intrinsic Safety "i". This protection technique shall be
permitted for apparatus and associated apparatus for Zone 0,
Zone 1, or Zone 2
 locations for which it is listed.
The identifying letter for Intrinsic safety is "i" followed by either "a."
"b." or "c." indicating whether the equipment is suitable for Zone 0
(ia). Zone 1 (ib). or Zone 2
 (ic). The associated apparatus is identi
fied by the same letters in brackets, that is, [ia], [ib], or [ic].
The "ic" classification extends the intrinsic safety concept to
Zone 2 locations. The concept is similar to the nonincendive
technique in that faults to the circuit or system are not applied.
(D) Type of Protection
 This protection technique shall be
permitted for equipment in Zone 2
 locations. Type of protection
"n" is further subdivided into nA, nC, and nR.
(E) Liquid Immersion "o". This protection technique shall be
permitted for equipment in Zone 1 or Zone 2 locations.
(F) Increased Safety "e". This protection technique shall be
permitted for equipment in Zone 1 or Zone 2 locations.
The increased safety protection technique is commonly used for
terminal boxes, fluorescent tuminaires, motors, and generators
(see 505.22).
(G) Encapsulation "m". This protection technique shall be
permitted for equipment in Zone 0, Zone 1, or Zone 2 locations
for which it is identified.
(H) Powder Filling "q". This protection technique shall be
permitted for equipment in Zone 1 or Zone 2 locations.
(I) l^tectibh Systems for Flammable Gmes. A detection
system fm flammable, gases shall be permitted as a means of
protection in restrkted indusOfial establishn^tt.
 ^ (1) General. Any gas detection system
 as a protection
 technique shall meet all of the requirements in 505.8(I)(l)(a)
 through (I)(l)(e).
 (a) The gas detection equipment used shall be listed for
 Zone 1 and listed for the detection of the specific gas or vapor
 to be encountered.
 (b) The gas detection system shall not tiSe portable or trans
 portable equipment, or temporary wiring methods.
 (c) The gas detection system shall only use point-type sen
 sors. The system shall be permitted to be augmented with open-
 path (line-of-sight)-type sensors, but open-path-type sensors
 shall not be the basis for this protection technique.
 (d) The type of detection equipment, its listing, the instal
 lation location(s), flie alarm and shutdown criteria, and ttwi cali
 bration frequency shall be documented where gas detectors are
 used as a protection technique.
 (e) The applications for the use of gas detection systems
 as a protection technique shall be limited to 505.8(I)(2), (I)(3),
 or(I)(4).
 lafDi
 Note No. 1: See ANSI/UL 121303
 \)se of Detictomfor Flammable Gases, or ANSMFM
 Guidefo) Usepf Detectors for Flammtblc Gases, tor additjoi^
 fflformation.
 Iptormafiona,lNcteNo 2 SeeANSIAJ'L60079-29-L&r^f<^
 sh-' Armi'^phtres — Parr 79 1 Gas Detectofs —• Perfot^-
 e Pt
 of Detectors foi Fl'immahle <Taie%'^^
 il/PM 60079-29-1, Explosive Atmospheres — Part 29-1 {
 Gas Detertors —
 Performance ^quirements ofDeta tors fait
 ^qmmahle Gas^s, for additional infc^ation.
 InformaticralNoteNo. 3; SeeANSI/APIRP505, Recommencferf
 Practice far Classification of Locations for Electrical Installa
 tions at Petroleum Facilities Classified as Class I, Zone 0, Zone
 J, ar i Ton"
 additional information.
 laftWational Note No 4: See AmvUL
 60079-29^2,
 ^fmospheres -—^rt29-2' GasDetectors— Selection InstaUcki
 hufi Use and Maintenance of Detectcm for Flammable Gasei
 and Dry^en, or ANSI/FM,600"79-29-2, Explosive Atmospheres —
 Fart 29-2: Gas Detectors — Selection, Installation U\€ and
 Mawtenance of Detectors for Flammfable Gases and Ox\ %en
 addition^ infonuation.
 4
 (2) Inadequate Ventilation. A location, enclosed space, or
 building that is classified as a Zone 1 location due to inadequate
 tilation and that is provided with a detection system
 gases shall be permitted to
 electrical equipment,
 installation methods, and wiring practices suitable for Zone 2
 installations. Sensing a gas concentration of not more than
 40 percent of the lower flammable limit or a gas detector system
 malfunction shall activate an alarm (audible or visual, or both,
 as most appropriate for the area).
 Section 17.11 of NFPA 30, Flammable and Combustible Liquids
 Code, and 3.3.1 of NFPA 497, Recommended Practice for the Clas
 sification of Flammable Liquids. Gases, or Vapors and of Hazard
 ous (Classified) Locations for Electrical Installations in Chemical
 Process Areas, provide information on what is considered ade
 quate ventilation.
670
 2023 National Electrical Code Handbook
 Article 505 • Zone 0,1. and 2 Locations
 505.9
(3) Interior of a Building or Enclosed Space. Any building
or enclosed space that does not contain a source of flammable
gas or vapors that is located in, or with an opening into, a Zone
2
hazardous (classified) location that is provided with a detection
system
 be permitted to ^
 electrical
equipment, installation methods, and wiring practices suitable for
unclassified installations under all of the following conditions:
(1) An alarm (audible or visual, or both) shall be sounded at
not more than 20 percent of the lower flammable limit.
(2) Sensing a gas concentration of not more than 40 percent
of the lower flammable limit or a gas detector system mal
function shall activate an alarm (audible or visual, or both,
as most appropriate for the area) and initiate automatic
disconnection of power from all electrical devices in the
area that are not suitable for Zone 2.
(3) The power disconnecting device(s) shall be suitable for
Zone 1 if located inside the building or enclosed space. If
the disconnecting device(s) is located outside the building
or enclosed space, it shall be suitable for the location in
which it is installed.
Redundant or duplicate equipment (such as sensors) shall be
permitted to be installed to avoid disconnecting electrical power
when equipment malfunctions are indicated.
When automatic shutdown could introduce additional or
increased hazard, this technique shall not be permitted.
(4) Interior of a Control Panel. Inside the interior of a
control panel containing instrumentation or other equipment
using or measuring flammable liquids, gases, or vapors^^ft
that is provided with adetectiou system
equiprnent shall be allowed to use electrical equipment,
installation methods, and wiring practices suitable for Zone
2 installations.
An alarm (audible or visual, or both) shall be sounded at not
more than 40 percent of the lower flammable limit.
The gas detection system must be suitable for the original zone
classification of the area even though the remainder of installed
equipment is permitted to be suitable for one zone lower.
(J) Protection by Electrical Resistance Trace Heating
"60079-30-1". This protection technique shall be permitted for
electrical resistance trace heating equipment in Zone 1 or Zone
2
for which it is listed.
(K) Inherently Safe Optical Radiation "op is". This protec
tion technique shall be permitted for equipment in Zone 0, Zone
1, or Zone 2 locations for which the equipment is identified.
(L) Protected Optical Radiation "op pr". This protection
technique shall be permitted for equipment in Zone 1 or Zone 2
locations for which the equipment is identified.
(M) Optical System With Interlock "op sh". This protection
technique shall be permitted for equipment in Zone 0, Zone 1, or
Zone 2 locations for which the equipment is identified.
 (N) Protection hy Skin Effect Trace Heating "IEEE
 844.1". This protection technique shall be permitted for skin
 effect trace heating equipment in Zone I or Zone 2
 lot ationi^ for
 which it is listed.
 M (O) Protection hy Impedance Heating "IEEE 844.3". This
 protection technique shall be permitted for impedance heating
 of pipelines, and equipment in Zone 2 locations for which it
 is listed.
 M (P) Pressurized Room "p". This protection technique shall
 be permitted for equipment in Zone 1 or Zone 2 locations for
 which it is identified.
 N (Q) Special Protection "s". This protection technique shall be
 permitted for equipment in Zone 0, Zone 1, or Zone 2
 locations
 for which it is listed.
 505.9 Equipment.
 (A) Suitability. Suitability of identified equipment shall be
 determined by one of the following:
 (1) Equrp'nient listing or labeling
 (2) EvideLice of equipment evaluation from a qualified testing
 laborafory or inspection agency concerned with product
 evaliEation
 (3) Evidence acceptable to the authority having jurisdiction
 such, as a manufacturer's self-evaluation or an owner's
 engioeering judgment
 InforiTjiafional Note: Additional documentation for equipment
 may iticlwJe certificates demonstrating compliance with appli
 cable equipment standards, indicating special conditions of use,
 and other pertinent information.
 (B)
 (1) Equipment that is listed for a Zone 0 location shall be
 permitted in a Zone I or Zone 2 location of the same gas
 or vapor, provided that it is installed in accordance with the
 requirements for the marked type of protection. Equipment
 that is listed for a Zone 1 location shall be permitted in a
 Zone 2 location of the same gas or vapor, provided that
 it is installed in accordance with the requirements for the
 marked type of protection.
 (2) Equipment shall be permitted to be listed for a specific
 gas or vapor, specific mixtures of gases or vapors, or any
 specific combination of gases or v^ors.
 Informational Note: One common example is equipment marked
 for "UB.
 -h H2."
 (C) Marking. Equipment shall be marked in accordance with
 505.9(C)(1) or (C)(2).
 ik (1) Division Equipment. Equipment identified for Class I,
 Division 1 or Class I, Division 2 shall, in addition to being
 marked in accordance with 500.8(C), be permitted to be marked
 with all of the following:
National Electrical Code Handbook 2023
 671