ISO/IEC 27002:2022(E)
Introduction
0.1   Background and context
This document is designed for organizations of all types and sizes. It is to be used as a reference for 
determining and implementing controls for information security risk treatment in an information 
security management system (ISMS) based on ISO/IEC  27001. It can also be used as a guidance 
document for organizations determining and implementing commonly accepted information security 
controls. Furthermore, this document is intended for use in developing industry and organization-
specific information security management guidelines, taking into consideration their specific 
information security risk environment(s). Organizational or environment-specific controls other than 
those included in this document can be determined through risk assessment as necessary.
Organizations of all types and sizes (including public and private sector, commercial and non-profit) 
create, collect, process, store, transmit and dispose of information in many forms, including electronic, 
physical and verbal (e.g. conversations and presentations).
The value of information goes beyond written words, numbers and images: knowledge, concepts, ideas 
and brands are examples of intangible forms of information. In an interconnected world, information 
and other associated assets deserve or require protection against various risk sources, whether natural, 
accidental or deliberate.
Information security is achieved by implementing a suitable set of controls, including policies, rules, 
processes, procedures, organizational structures and software and hardware functions. To meet its 
specific security and business objectives, the organization should define, implement, monitor, review 
and improve these controls where necessary. An ISMS such as that specified in ISO/IEC 27001 takes a 
holistic, coordinated view of the organization’s information security risks in order to determine and 
implement a comprehensive suite of information security controls within the overall framework of a 
coherent management system.
Many information systems, including their management and operations, have not been designed to be 
secure in terms of an ISMS as specified in ISO/IEC 27001 and this document. The level of security that 
can be achieved only through technological measures is limited and should be supported by appropriate 
management activities and organizational processes. Identifying which controls should be in place 
requires careful planning and attention to detail while carrying out risk treatment.
A successful ISMS requires support from all personnel in the organization. It can also require 
participation from other interested parties, such as shareholders or suppliers. Advice from subject 
matter experts can also be needed.
A suitable, adequate and effective information security management system provides assurance to the 
organization’s management and other interested parties that their information and other associated 
assets are kept reasonably secure and protected against threats and harm, thereby enabling the 
organization to achieve the stated business objectives.
0.2   Information security requirements
It is essential that an organization determines its information security requirements. There are three 
main sources of information security requirements:
a)	 the assessment of risks to the organization, taking into account the organization’s overall business 
strategy and objectives. This can be facilitated or supported through an information security-
specific risk assessment. This should result in the determination of the controls necessary to 
ensure that the residual risk to the organization meets its risk acceptance criteria;
b)	 the legal, statutory, regulatory and contractual requirements that an organization and its 
interested parties (trading partners, service providers, etc.) have to comply with and their socio-
cultural environment;
vii
© ISO/IEC 2022 – All rights reserved	
﻿
