ISO/IEC 27002:2022(E)
c)	
the set of principles, objectives and business requirements for all the steps of the life cycle of 
information that an organization has developed to support its operations.
0.3   Controls
A control is defined as a measure that modifies or maintains risk. Some of the controls in this document 
are controls that modify risk, while others maintain risk. An information security policy, for example, 
can only maintain risk, whereas compliance with the information security policy can modify risk. 
Moreover, some controls describe the same generic measure in different risk contexts. This document 
provides a generic mixture of organizational, people, physical and technological information security 
controls derived from internationally recognized best practices.
0.4   Determining controls
Determining controls is dependent on the organization’s decisions following a risk assessment, with 
a clearly defined scope. Decisions related to identified risks should be based on the criteria for risk 
acceptance, risk treatment options and the risk management approach applied by the organization. The 
determination of controls should also take into consideration all relevant national and international 
legislation and regulations. Control determination also depends on the manner in which controls 
interact with one another to provide defence in depth.
The organization can design controls as required or identify them from any source. In specifying such 
controls, the organization should consider the resources and investment needed to implement and 
operate a control against the business value realized. See ISO/IEC TR 27016 for guidance on decisions 
regarding the investment in an ISMS and the economic consequences of these decisions in the context of 
competing requirements for resources.
There should be a balance between the resources deployed for implementing controls and the potential 
resulting business impact from security incidents in the absence of those controls. The results of a 
risk assessment should help guide and determine the appropriate management action, priorities for 
managing information security risks and for implementing controls determined necessary to protect 
against these risks.
Some of the controls in this document can be considered as guiding principles for information security 
management and as being applicable for most organizations. More information about determining 
controls and other risk treatment options can be found in ISO/IEC 27005.
0.5   Developing organization-specific guidelines
This document can be regarded as a starting point for developing organization-specific guidelines. 
Not all of the controls and guidance in this document can be applicable to all organizations. Additional 
controls and guidelines not included in this document can also be required to address the specific needs 
of the organization and the risks that have been identified. When documents are developed containing 
additional guidelines or controls, it can be useful to include cross-references to clauses in this document 
for future reference.
0.6   Life cycle considerations
Information has a life cycle, from creation to disposal. The value of, and risks to, information can vary 
throughout this life cycle (e.g. unauthorized disclosure or theft of a company’s financial accounts is 
not significant after they have been published, but integrity remains critical) therefore, information 
security remains important to some extent at all stages.
Information systems and other assets relevant to information security have life cycles within which 
they are conceived, specified, designed, developed, tested, implemented, used, maintained and 
eventually retired from service and disposed of. Information security should be considered at every 
stage. New system development projects and changes to existing systems provide opportunities to 
improve security controls while taking into account the organization’s risks and lessons learned from 
incidents.
viii
	
﻿
© ISO/IEC 2022 – All rights reserved

