ISO/IEC 27002:2022(E)
e)	 Security domains
Security domains is an attribute to view controls from the perspective of four information security 
domains: “Governance and Ecosystem” includes “Information System Security Governance & 
Risk Management” and “Ecosystem cybersecurity management” (including internal and external 
stakeholders); “Protection” includes “IT Security Architecture”, “IT Security Administration”, 
“Identity and access management”, “IT Security Maintenance” and “Physical and environmental 
security”; “Defence” includes “Detection” and “Computer Security Incident Management”; 
“Resilience” includes “Continuity of operations” and “Crisis management”. Attribute values consist 
of Governance_and_Ecosystem, Protection, Defence and Resilience.
The attributes given in this document are selected because they are considered generic enough to be 
used by different types of organizations. Organizations can choose to disregard one or more of the 
attributes given in this document. They can also create attributes of their own (with the corresponding 
attribute values) to create their own organizational views. Clause  A.2 includes examples of such 
attributes.
4.3	 Control layout
The layout for each control contains the following:
—	 Control title: Short name of the control;
—	 Attribute table: A table shows the value(s) of each attribute for the given control;
—	 Control: What the control is;
—	 Purpose: Why the control should be implemented;
—	 Guidance: How the control should be implemented;
—	 Other information: Explanatory text or references to other related documents.
Subheadings are used in the guidance text for some controls to aid readability where guidance is lengthy 
and addresses multiple topics. Such headings are not necessarily used in all guidance text. Subheadings 
are underlined.
5	 Organizational controls
5.1	 Policies for information security
Control type
Information
security properties
Cybersecurity
concepts
Operational
capabilities
Security domains
#Preventive
#Confidentiality
#Integrity
#Availability
#Identify
#Governance
#Governance_and_Eco­
system #Resilience
Control
Information security policy and topic-specific policies should be defined, approved by management, 
published, communicated to and acknowledged by relevant personnel and relevant interested parties, 
and reviewed at planned intervals and if significant changes occur.
Purpose
To ensure continuing suitability, adequacy, effectiveness of management direction and support 
for information security in accordance with business, legal, statutory, regulatory and contractual 
requirements.
© ISO/IEC 2022 – All rights reserved	
﻿
﻿
9
