ISO/IEC 27002:2022(E)
The responsibility for the development, review and approval of the topic-specific policies should be 
allocated to relevant personnel based on their appropriate level of authority and technical competency. 
The review should include assessing opportunities for improvement of the organization’s information 
security policy and topic-specific policies and managing information security in response to changes 
to:
a)	 the organization’s business strategy;
b)	 the organization’s technical environment;
c)	
regulations, statutes, legislation and contracts;
d)	 information security risks;
e)	 the current and projected information security threat environment;
f)	
lessons learned from information security events and incidents.
The review of information security policy and topic-specific policies should take the results of 
management reviews and audits into account. Review and update of other related policies should be 
considered when one policy is changed to maintain consistency.
The information security policy and topic-specific policies should be communicated to relevant 
personnel and interested parties in a form that is relevant, accessible and understandable to the 
intended reader. Recipients of the policies should be required to acknowledge they understand and 
agree to comply with the policies where applicable. The organization can determine the formats 
and names of these policy documents that meet the organization’s needs. In some organizations, the 
information security policy and topic-specific policies can be in a single document. The organization 
can name these topic-specific policies as standards, directives, policies or others.
If the information security policy or any topic-specific policy is distributed outside the organization, 
care should be taken not to improperly disclose confidential information.
Table 1 illustrates the differences between information security policy and topic-specific policy.
Table 1 — Differences between information security policy and topic-specific policy
 
Information security policy
Topic-specific policy
Level of detail
General or high-level
Specific and detailed
Documented and formally 
approved by
Top management
Appropriate level of management
Other information
Topic-specific policies can vary across organizations.
5.2	 Information security roles and responsibilities
Control type
Information
security properties
Cybersecurity
concepts
Operational
capabilities
Security domains
#Preventive
#Confidentiality
#Integrity
#Availability
#Identify
#Governance
#Governance_and_Ecosys­
tem #Protection #Resilience
Control
Information security roles and responsibilities should be defined and allocated according to the 
organization needs.
© ISO/IEC 2022 – All rights reserved	
﻿
﻿
11
