ISO/IEC 27002:2022(E)
Purpose
To establish a defined, approved and understood structure for the implementation, operation and 
management of information security within the organization.
Guidance
Allocation of information security roles and responsibilities should be done in accordance with the 
information security policy and topic-specific policies (see 5.1). The organization should define and 
manage responsibilities for:
a)	 protection of information and other associated assets;
b)	 carrying out specific information security processes;
c)	
information security risk management activities and in particular acceptance of residual risks (e.g. 
to risk owners);
d)	 all personnel using an organization’s information and other associated assets.
These responsibilities should be supplemented, where necessary, with more detailed guidance for 
specific sites and information processing facilities. Individuals with allocated information security 
responsibilities can assign security tasks to others. However, they remain accountable and should 
determine that any delegated tasks have been correctly performed.
Each security area for which individuals are responsible should be defined, documented and 
communicated. Authorization levels should be defined and documented. Individuals who take on a 
specific information security role should be competent in the knowledge and skills required by the role 
and should be supported to keep up to date with developments related to the role and required in order 
to fulfil the responsibilities of the role.
Other information
Many organizations appoint an information security manager to take overall responsibility for the 
development and implementation of information security and to support the identification of risks and 
mitigating controls.
However, responsibility for resourcing and implementing the controls often remains with individual 
managers. One common practice is to appoint an owner for each asset who then becomes responsible 
for its day-to-day protection.
Depending on the size and resourcing of an organization, information security can be covered by 
dedicated roles or duties carried out in addition to existing roles.
5.3	 Segregation of duties
Control type
Information
security properties
Cybersecurity
concepts
Operational
capabilities
Security domains
#Preventive
#Confidentiality
#Integrity
#Availability
#Protect
#Governance
#Identity_and_ac­
cess_management
#Governance_and_Ecosys­
tem
Control
Conflicting duties and conflicting areas of responsibility should be segregated.
Purpose
To reduce the risk of fraud, error and bypassing of information security controls.
	
﻿
© ISO/IEC 2022 – All rights reserved

﻿
12
