ISO/IEC 27002:2022(E)
Guidance
Segregation of duties and areas of responsibility aims to separate conflicting duties between different 
individuals in order to prevent one individual from executing potential conflicting duties on their own.
The organization should determine which duties and areas of responsibility need to be segregated. The 
following are examples of activities that can require segregation:
a)	 initiating, approving and executing a change;
b)	 requesting, approving and implementing access rights;
c)	
designing, implementing and reviewing code;
d)	 developing software and administering production systems;
e)	 using and administering applications;
f)	
using applications and administering databases;
g)	 designing, auditing and assuring information security controls.
The possibility of collusion should be considered in designing the segregation controls. Small 
organizations can find segregation of duties difficult to achieve, but the principle should be applied 
as far as is possible and practicable. Whenever it is difficult to segregate, other controls should be 
considered, such as monitoring of activities, audit trails and management supervision.
Care should be taken when using role-based access control systems to ensure that persons are not 
granted conflicting roles. When there is a large number of roles, the organization should consider using 
automated tools to identify conflicts and facilitate their removal. Roles should be carefully defined and 
provisioned to minimize access problems if a role is removed or reassigned.
Other information
No other information.
5.4	 Management responsibilities
Control type
Information
security properties
Cybersecurity
concepts
Operational
capabilities
Security domains
#Preventive
#Confidentiality
#Integrity
#Availability
#Identify
#Governance
#Governance_and_Ecosys­
tem
Control
Management should require all personnel to apply information security in accordance with the 
established information security policy, topic-specific policies and procedures of the organization.
Purpose
To ensure management understand their role in information security and undertake actions aiming to 
ensure all personnel are aware of and fulfil their information security responsibilities.
Guidance
Management should demonstrate support of the information security policy, topic-specific policies, 
procedures and information security controls.
Management responsibilities should include ensuring that personnel:
a)	 are properly briefed on their information security roles and responsibilities prior to being granted 
access to the organization’s information and other associated assets;
© ISO/IEC 2022 – All rights reserved	
﻿
﻿
13
