ISO/IEC 27002:2022(E)
b)	 are provided with guidelines which state the information security expectations of their role within 
the organization;
c)	
are mandated to fulfil the information security policy and topic-specific policies of the organization;
d)	 achieve a level of awareness of information security relevant to their roles and responsibilities 
within the organization (see 6.3);
e)	 compliance with the terms and conditions of employment, contract or agreement, including the 
organization’s information security policy and appropriate methods of working;
f)	
continue to have the appropriate information security skills and qualifications through ongoing 
professional education;
g)	 where practicable, are provided with a confidential channel for reporting violations of information 
security policy, topic-specific policies or procedures for information security (“whistleblowing”). 
This can allow for anonymous reporting, or have provisions to ensure that knowledge of the 
identity of the reporter is known only to those who need to deal with such reports;
h)	 are provided with adequate resources and project planning time for implementing the organization’s 
security-related processes and controls.
Other information
No other information.
5.5	 Contact with authorities
Control type
Information
security properties
Cybersecurity
concepts
Operational
capabilities
Security domains
#Preventive 
#Corrective
#Confidentiality
#Integrity
#Availability
#Identify #Protect
#Respond #Recover
#Governance
#Defence
#Resilience
Control
The organization should establish and maintain contact with relevant authorities.
Purpose
To ensure appropriate flow of information takes place with respect to information security between 
the organization and relevant legal, regulatory and supervisory authorities.
Guidance
The organization should specify when and by whom authorities (e.g. law enforcement, regulatory 
bodies, supervisory authorities) should be contacted and how identified information security incidents 
should be reported in a timely manner.
Contacts with authorities should also be used to facilitate the understanding about the current and 
upcoming expectations of these authorities (e.g. applicable information security regulations).
Other information
Organizations under attack can request authorities to take action against the attack source.
Maintaining such contacts can be a requirement to support information security incident management 
(see 5.24 to 5.28) or the contingency planning and business continuity processes (see 5.29 and 5.30). 
Contacts with regulatory bodies are also useful to anticipate and prepare for upcoming changes in 
relevant laws or regulations that affect the organization. Contacts with other authorities include 
utilities, emergency services, electricity suppliers and health and safety [e.g. fire departments (in 
	
﻿
© ISO/IEC 2022 – All rights reserved

﻿
14
