ISO/IEC 27002:2022(E)
Guidance
Information about existing or emerging threats is collected and analysed in order to:
a)	 facilitate informed actions to prevent the threats from causing harm to the organization;
b)	 reduce the impact of such threats.
Threat intelligence can be divided into three layers, which should all be considered:
a)	 strategic threat intelligence: exchange of high-level information about the changing threat 
landscape (e.g. types of attackers or types of attacks);
b)	 tactical threat intelligence: information about attacker methodologies, tools and technologies 
involved;
c)	
operational threat intelligence: details about specific attacks, including technical indicators.
Threat intelligence should be:
a)	 relevant (i.e. related to the protection of the organization);
b)	 insightful (i.e. providing the organization with an accurate and detailed understanding of the 
threat landscape);
c)	
contextual, to provide situational awareness (i.e. adding context to the information based on the 
time of events, where they occur, previous experiences and prevalence in similar organizations);
d)	 actionable (i.e. the organization can act on information quickly and effectively).
Threat intelligence activities should include:
a)	 establishing objectives for threat intelligence production;
b)	 identifying, vetting and selecting internal and external information sources that are necessary and 
appropriate to provide information required for the production of threat intelligence;
c)	
collecting information from selected sources, which can be internal and external;
d)	 processing information collected to prepare it for analysis (e.g. by translating, formatting or 
corroborating information);
e)	 analysing information to understand how it relates and is meaningful to the organization;
f)	
communicating and sharing it to relevant individuals in a format that can be understood.
Threat intelligence should be analysed and later used:
a)	 by implementing processes to include information gathered from threat intelligence sources into 
the organization’s information security risk management processes;
b)	 as additional input to technical preventive and detective controls like firewalls, intrusion detection 
system, or anti malware solutions;
c)	
as input to the information security test processes and techniques.
The organization should share threat intelligence with other organizations on a mutual basis in order 
to improve overall threat intelligence.
Other information
Organizations can use threat intelligence to prevent, detect, or respond to threats. Organizations can 
produce threat intelligence, but more typically receive and make use of threat intelligence produced by 
other sources.
	
﻿
© ISO/IEC 2022 – All rights reserved

﻿
16
