ISO/IEC 27002:2022(E)
Threat intelligence is often provided by independent providers or advisors, government agencies or 
collaborative threat intelligence groups.
The effectiveness of controls such as 5.25, 8.7, 8.16 or 8.23, depends on the quality of available threat 
intelligence.
5.8	 Information security in project management
Control type
Information
security properties
Cybersecurity
concepts
Operational
capabilities
Security domains
#Preventive
#Confidentiality
#Integrity
#Availability
#Identify #Protect
#Governance
#Governance_and_Ecosys­
tem #Protection
Control
Information security should be integrated into project management.
Purpose
To ensure information security risks related to projects and deliverables are effectively addressed in 
project management throughout the project life cycle.
Guidance
Information security should be integrated into project management to ensure information security risks 
are addressed as part of the project management. This can be applied to any type of project regardless 
of its complexity, size, duration, discipline or application area (e.g. a project for a core business process, 
ICT, facility management or other supporting processes).
The project management in use should require that:
a)	 information security risks are assessed and treated at an early stage and periodically as part of 
project risks throughout the project life cycle;
b)	 information security requirements [e.g. application security requirements (8.26), requirements 
for complying with intellectual property rights (5.32), etc.] are addressed in the early stages of 
projects;
c)	
information security risks associated with the execution of projects, such as security of internal 
and external communication aspects are considered and treated throughout the project life cycle;
d)	 progress on information security risk treatment is reviewed and effectiveness of the treatment is 
evaluated and tested.
The appropriateness of the information security considerations and activities should be followed up at 
predefined stages by suitable persons or governance bodies, such as the project steering committee.
Responsibilities and authorities for information security relevant to the project should be defined and 
allocated to specified roles.
Information security requirements for products or services to be delivered by the project should be 
determined using various methods, including deriving compliance requirements from information 
security policy, topic-specific policies and regulations. Further information security requirements can 
be derived from activities such as threat modelling, incident reviews, use of vulnerability thresholds 
or contingency planning, thus ensuring that the architecture and design of information systems are 
protected against known threats based on the operational environment.
Information security requirements should be determined for all types of projects, not only ICT 
development projects. The following should also be considered when determining these requirements:
© ISO/IEC 2022 – All rights reserved	
﻿
﻿
17
