ISO/IEC 27002:2022(E)
Guidance
Inventory
The organization should identify its information and other associated assets and determine their 
importance in terms of information security. Documentation should be maintained in dedicated or 
existing inventories as appropriate.
The inventory of information and other associated assets should be accurate, up to date, consistent and 
aligned with other inventories. Options for ensuring accuracy of an inventory of information and other 
associated assets include:
a)	 conducting regular reviews of identified information and other associated assets against the asset 
inventory;
b)	 automatically enforcing an inventory update in the process of installing, changing or removing an 
asset.
The location of an asset should be included in the inventory as appropriate.
The inventory does not need to be a single list of information and other associated assets. Considering 
that the inventory should be maintained by the relevant functions, it can be seen as a set of dynamic 
inventories, such as inventories for information assets, hardware, software, virtual machines (VMs), 
facilities, personnel, competence, capabilities and records.
Each asset should be classified in accordance with the classification of the information (see 5.12) 
associated to that asset.
The granularity of the inventory of information and other associated assets should be at a level 
appropriate for the needs of the organization. Sometimes specific instances of assets in the information 
life cycle are not feasible to be documented due to the nature of the asset. An example of a short-lived 
asset is a VM instance whose life cycle can be of short duration.
Ownership
For the identified information and other associated assets, ownership of the asset should be assigned 
to an individual or a group and the classification should be identified (see 5.12, 5.13). A process to 
ensure timely assignment of asset ownership should be implemented. Ownership should be assigned 
when assets are created or when assets are transferred to the organization. Asset ownership should be 
reassigned as necessary when current asset owners leave or change job roles.
Owner duties
The asset owner should be responsible for the proper management of an asset over the whole asset life 
cycle, ensuring that:
a)	 information and other associated assets are inventoried;
b)	 information and other associated assets are appropriately classified and protected;
c)	
the classification is reviewed periodically;
d)	 components supporting technology assets are listed and linked, such as database, storage, software 
components and sub-components;
e)	 requirements for the acceptable use of information and other associated assets (see 5.10) are 
established;
f)	
access restrictions correspond with the classification and that they are effective and are reviewed 
periodically;
g)	 information and other associated assets, when deleted or disposed, are handled in a secure manner 
and removed from the inventory;
© ISO/IEC 2022 – All rights reserved	
﻿
﻿
19
