ISO/IEC 27002:2022(E)
h)	 they are involved in the identification and management of risks associated with their asset(s);
i)	
they support personnel who have the roles and responsibilities of managing their information.
Other information
Inventories of information and other associated assets are often necessary to ensure the effective 
protection of information and can be required for other purposes, such as health and safety, insurance 
or financial reasons. Inventories of information and other associated assets also support risk 
management, audit activities, vulnerability management, incident response and recovery planning.
Tasks and responsibilities can be delegated (e.g. to a custodian looking after the assets on a daily basis), 
but the person or group who delegated them remains accountable.
It can be useful to designate groups of information and other associated assets which act together to 
provide a particular service. In this case, the owner of this service is accountable for the delivery of the 
service, including the operation of its assets.
See ISO/IEC 19770-1 for additional information on information technology (IT) asset management. See 
ISO 55001 for additional information on asset management.
5.10	Acceptable use of information and other associated assets
Control type
Information
security properties
Cybersecurity
concepts
Operational
capabilities
Security domains
#Preventive
#Confidentiality
#Integrity
#Availability
#Protect
#Asset_management
#Information_pro­
tection
#Governance_and_Ecosys­
tem #Protection
Control
Rules for the acceptable use and procedures for handling information and other associated assets 
should be identified, documented and implemented.
Purpose
To ensure information and other associated assets are appropriately protected, used and handled.
Guidance
Personnel and external party users using or having access to the organization’s information and other 
associated assets should be made aware of the information security requirements for protecting and 
handling the organization’s information and other associated assets. They should be responsible for 
their use of any information processing facilities.
The organization should establish a topic-specific policy on the acceptable use of information and other 
associated assets and communicate it to anyone who uses or handles information and other associated 
assets. The topic-specific policy on acceptable use should provide clear direction on how individuals 
are expected to use information and other associated assets. The topic-specific policy should state:
a)	 expected and unacceptable behaviours of individuals from an information security perspective;
b)	 permitted and prohibited use of information and other associated assets;
c)	
monitoring activities being performed by the organization.
Acceptable use procedures should be drawn up for the full information life cycle in accordance with its 
classification (see 5.12) and determined risks. The following items should be considered:
a)	 access restrictions supporting the protection requirements for each level of classification;
b)	 maintenance of a record of the authorized users of information and other associated assets;
	
﻿
© ISO/IEC 2022 – All rights reserved

﻿
20
