ISO/IEC 27002:2022(E)
c)	
protection of temporary or permanent copies of information to a level consistent with the 
protection of the original information;
d)	 storage of assets associated with information in accordance with manufacturers’ specifications 
(see 7.8);
e)	 clear marking of all copies of storage media (electronic or physical) for the attention of the 
authorized recipient (see 7.10);
f)	
authorization of disposal of information and other associated assets and supported deletion 
method(s) (see 8.10).
Other information
It can be the case that the assets concerned do not directly belong to the organization, such as public 
cloud services. The use of such third-party assets and any assets of the organization associated with 
such external assets (e.g. information, software) should be identified as applicable and controlled, 
for example, through agreements with cloud service providers. Care should also be taken when a 
collaborative working environment is used.
5.11	Return of assets
Control type
Information
security properties
Cybersecurity
concepts
Operational
capabilities
Security domains
#Preventive
#Confidentiality
#Integrity
#Availability
#Protect
#Asset_manage­
ment
#Protection
Control
Personnel and other interested parties as appropriate should return all the organization’s assets in 
their possession upon change or termination of their employment, contract or agreement.
Purpose
To protect the organization’s assets as part of the process of changing or terminating employment, 
contract or agreement.
Guidance
The change or termination process should be formalized to include the return of all previously issued 
physical and electronic assets owned by or entrusted to the organization.
In cases where personnel and other interested parties purchase the organization’s equipment or use 
their own personal equipment, procedures should be followed to ensure that all relevant information is 
traced and transferred to the organization and securely deleted from the equipment (see 7.14).
In cases where personnel and other interested parties have knowledge that is important to ongoing 
operations, that information should be documented and transferred to the organization.
During the notice period and thereafter, the organization should prevent unauthorized copying of 
relevant information (e.g. intellectual property) by personnel under notice of termination.
The organization should clearly identify and document all information and other associated assets to 
be returned which can include:
a)	 user endpoint devices;
b)	 portable storage devices;
c)	
specialist equipment;
© ISO/IEC 2022 – All rights reserved	
﻿
﻿
21
