ISO/IEC 27002:2022(E)
d)	 authentication hardware (e.g. mechanical keys, physical tokens and smartcards) for information 
systems, sites and physical archives;
e)	 physical copies of information.
Other information
It can be difficult to return information held on assets which are not owned by the organization. In such 
cases, it is necessary to restrict the use of information using other information security controls such 
as access rights management (5.18) or use of cryptography (8.24).
5.12 Classification of information
Control type
Information
security properties
Cybersecurity
concepts
Operational
capabilities
Security domains
#Preventive
#Confidentiality
#Integrity
#Availability
#Identify
#Information_pro­
tection
#Protection
#Defence
Control
Information should be classified according to the information security needs of the organization based 
on confidentiality, integrity, availability and relevant interested party requirements.
Purpose
To ensure identification and understanding of protection needs of information in accordance with its 
importance to the organization.
Guidance
The organization should establish a topic-specific policy on information classification and communicate 
it to all relevant interested parties.
The organization should take into account requirements for confidentiality, integrity and availability in 
the classification scheme.
Classifications and associated protective controls for information should take account of business 
needs for sharing or restricting information, for protecting integrity of information and for assuring 
availability, as well as legal requirements concerning the confidentiality, integrity or availability of the 
information. Assets other than information can also be classified in compliance with classification of 
information, which is stored in, processed by or otherwise handled or protected by the asset.
Owners of information should be accountable for their classification.
The classification scheme should include conventions for classification and criteria for review of the 
classification over time. Results of classification should be updated in accordance with changes of the 
value, sensitivity and criticality of information through their life cycle.
The scheme should be aligned to the topic-specific policy on access control (see 5.1) and should be able 
to address specific business needs of the organization.
The classification can be determined by the level of impact that the information's compromise would 
have for the organization. Each level defined in the scheme should be given a name that makes sense in 
the context of the classification scheme’s application.
The scheme should be consistent across the whole organization and included in its procedures so that 
everyone classifies information and applicable other associated assets in the same way. In this manner, 
everyone has a common understanding of protection requirements and applies appropriate protection.
The classification scheme used within the organization can be different from the schemes used by 
other organizations, even if the names for levels are similar. In addition, information moving between 
	
﻿
© ISO/IEC 2022 – All rights reserved

﻿
22
