ISO/IEC 27002:2022(E)
organizations can vary in classification depending on its context in each organization, even if their 
classification schemes are identical. Therefore, agreements with other organizations that include 
information sharing should include procedures to identify the classification of that information and to 
interpret the classification levels from other organizations. Correspondence between different schemes 
can be determined by looking for equivalence in the associated handling and protection methods.
Other information
Classification provides people who deal with information with a concise indication of how to handle 
and protect it. Creating groups of information with similar protection needs and specifying information 
security procedures that apply to all the information in each group facilitates this. This approach 
reduces the need for case-by-case risk assessment and custom design of controls.
Information can cease to be sensitive or critical after a certain period of time. For example, when the 
information has been made public, it no longer has confidentiality requirements but can still require 
protection for its integrity and availability properties. These aspects should be taken into account, 
as over-classification can lead to the implementation of unnecessary controls resulting in additional 
expense or, on the contrary, under-classification can lead to insufficient controls to protect the 
information from compromise.
As an example, an information confidentiality classification scheme can be based on four levels as 
follows:
a)	 disclosure causes no harm;
b)	 disclosure causes minor reputational damage or minor operational impact;
c)	
disclosure has a significant short-term impact on operations or business objectives;
d)	 disclosure has a serious impact on long term business objectives or puts the survival of the 
organization at risk.
5.13	Labelling of information
Control type
Information
security properties
Cybersecurity
concepts
Operational
capabilities
Security domains
#Preventive
#Confidentiality
#Integrity
#Availability
#Protect
#Information_
protection
#Defence
#Protection
Control
An appropriate set of procedures for information labelling should be developed and implemented in 
accordance with the information classification scheme adopted by the organization.
Purpose
To facilitate the communication of classification of information and support automation of information 
processing and management.
Guidance
Procedures for information labelling should cover information and other associated assets in all 
formats. The labelling should reflect the classification scheme established in 5.12. The labels should 
be easily recognizable. The procedures should give guidance on where and how labels are attached in 
consideration of how the information is accessed or the assets are handled depending on the types of 
storage media. The procedures can define:
a)	 cases where labelling is omitted (e.g. labelling of non-confidential information to reduce workloads);
b)	 how to label information sent by or stored on electronic or physical means, or any other format;
© ISO/IEC 2022 – All rights reserved	
﻿
﻿
23
