ISO/IEC 27002:2022(E)
c)	
how to handle cases where labelling is not possible (e.g. due to technical restrictions).
Examples of labelling techniques include:
a)	 physical labels;
b)	 headers and footers;
c)	
metadata;
d)	 watermarking;
e)	 rubber-stamps.
Digital information should utilize metadata in order to identify, manage and control information, 
especially with regard to confidentiality. Metadata should also enable efficient and correct searching for 
information. Metadata should facilitate systems to interact and make decisions based on the associated 
classification labels.
The procedures should describe how to attach metadata to information, what labels to use and how 
data should be handled, in line with the organization’s information model and ICT architecture.
Relevant additional metadata should be added by systems when they process information depending 
on its information security properties.
Personnel and other interested parties should be made aware of labelling procedures. All personnel 
should be provided with the necessary training to ensure that information is correctly labelled and 
handled accordingly.
Output from systems containing information that is classified as being sensitive or critical should carry 
an appropriate classification label.
Other information
Labelling of classified information is a key requirement for information sharing.
Other useful metadata that can be attached to the information is which organizational process created 
the information and at what time.
Labelling of information and other associated assets can sometimes have negative effects. Classified 
assets can be easier to identify by malicious actors for potential misuse.
Some systems do not label individual files or database records with their classification but protect all 
information at the highest level of classification of any of the information that it contains or is permitted 
to contain. It is usual in such systems to determine and then label information when it is exported.
5.14	Information transfer
Control type
Information
security properties
Cybersecurity
concepts
Operational
capabilities
Security domains
#Preventive
#Confidentiality
#Integrity
#Availability
#Protect
#Asset_management
#Information_protection
#Protection
Control
Information transfer rules, procedures, or agreements should be in place for all types of transfer 
facilities within the organization and between the organization and other parties.
	
﻿
© ISO/IEC 2022 – All rights reserved

﻿
24
