ISO/IEC 27002:2022(E)
d)	 ensure that appropriate room controls are implemented (e.g. sound-proofing, closed door);
e)	 begin any sensitive conversations with a disclaimer so those present know the classification level 
and any handling requirements of what they are about to hear.
Other information
No other information.
5.15	Access control
Control type
Information
security properties
Cybersecurity
concepts
Operational
capabilities
Security domains
#Preventive
#Confidentiality
#Integrity
#Availability
#Protect
#Identity_and_ac­
cess_management
#Protection
Control
Rules to control physical and logical access to information and other associated assets should be 
established and implemented based on business and information security requirements.
Purpose
To ensure authorized access and to prevent unauthorized access to information and other associated 
assets.
Guidance
Owners of information and other associated assets should determine information security and business 
requirements related to access control. A topic-specific policy on access control should be defined which 
takes account of these requirements and should be communicated to all relevant interested parties.
These requirements and the topic-specific policy should consider the following:
a)	 determining which entities require which type of access to the information and other associated 
assets;
b)	 security of applications (see 8.26);
c)	
physical access, which needs to be supported by appropriate physical entry controls (see 7.2, 7.3, 
7.4);
d)	 information dissemination and authorization (e.g. the need-to-know principle) and information 
security levels and classification of information (see 5.10, 5.12, 5.13);
e)	 restrictions to privileged access (see 8.2);
f)	
segregation of duties (see 5.3);
g)	 relevant legislation, regulations and any contractual obligations regarding limitation of access to 
data or services (see 5.31, 5.32, 5.33, 5.34, 8.3);
h)	 segregation of access control functions (e.g. access request, access authorization, access 
administration);
i)	
formal authorization of access requests (see 5.16 and 5.18);
j)	
the management of access rights (see 5.18);
k)	 logging (see 8.15).
© ISO/IEC 2022 – All rights reserved	
﻿
﻿
27
