ISO/IEC 27002:2022(E)
Access control rules should be implemented by defining and mapping appropriate access rights and 
restrictions to the relevant entities (see 5.16). An entity can represent a human user as well as a 
technical or logical item (e.g. a machine, device or a service). To simplify the access control management, 
specific roles can be assigned to entity groups.
The following should be taken into account when defining and implementing access control rules:
a)	 consistency between the access rights and information classification;
b)	 consistency between the access rights and the physical perimeter security needs and requirements;
c)	
considering all types of available connections in distributed environments so entities are only 
provided with access to information and other associated assets, including networks and network 
services, that they are authorized to use;
d)	 considering how elements or factors relevant to dynamic access control can be reflected.
Other information
There are often overarching principles used in the context of access control. Two of the most frequently 
used principles are:
a)	 need-to-know: an entity is only granted access to the information which that entity requires in 
order to perform its tasks (different tasks or roles mean different need-to-know information and 
hence different access profiles);
b)	 need-to-use: an entity is only assigned access to information technology infrastructure where a 
clear need is present.
Care should be taken when specifying access control rules to consider:
a)	 establishing rules based on the premise of least privilege, “Everything is generally forbidden unless 
expressly permitted”, rather than the weaker rule, “Everything is generally permitted unless 
expressly forbidden”;
b)	 changes in information labels (see 5.13) that are initiated automatically by information processing 
facilities and those initiated at the discretion of a user;
c)	
changes in user permissions that are initiated automatically by the information system and those 
initiated by an administrator;
d)	 when to define and regularly review the approval.
Access control rules should be supported by documented procedures (see 5.16, 5.17, 5.18, 8.2, 8.3, 8.4, 
8.5, 8.18) and defined responsibilities (see 5.2, 5.17).
There are several ways to implement access control, such as MAC (mandatory access control), DAC 
(discretionary access control), RBAC (role-based access control) and ABAC (attribute-based access 
control).
Access control rules can also contain dynamic elements (e.g. a function that evaluates past accesses or 
specific environment values). Access control rules can be implemented in different granularity, ranging 
from covering whole networks or systems to specific data fields and can also consider properties 
such as user location or the type of network connection that is used for access. These principles and 
how granular access control is defined can have a significant cost impact. Stronger rules and more 
granularity typically lead to higher cost. Business requirements and risk considerations should be used 
to define which access control rules are applied and which granularity is required.
	
﻿
© ISO/IEC 2022 – All rights reserved

﻿
28
