ISO/IEC 27002:2022(E)
1)	 passwords are not based on anything somebody else can easily guess or obtain using person-
related information (e.g. names, telephone numbers and dates of birth);
2)	 passwords are not based on dictionary words or combinations thereof;
3)	 use easy to remember passphrases and try to include alphanumerical and special characters;
4)	 passwords have a minimum length;
d)	 the same passwords are not used across distinct services and systems;
e)	 the obligation to follow these rules is also included in terms and conditions of employment (see 
6.2).
Password management system
When passwords are used as authentication information, the password management system should:
a)	 allow users to select and change their own passwords and include a confirmation procedure to 
address input errors;
b)	 enforce strong passwords according to good practice recommendations [see c) of "User 
responsibilities];
c)	
force users to change their passwords at first login;
d)	 enforce password changes as necessary, for example after a security incident, or upon termination 
or change of employment when a user has known passwords for identities that remain active (e.g. 
shared identities);
e)	 prevent re-use of previous passwords;
f)	
prevent the use of commonly-used passwords and compromised usernames, password 
combinations from hacked systems;
g)	 not display passwords on the screen when being entered;
h)	 store and transmit passwords in protected form.
Password encryption and hashing should be performed according to approved cryptographic 
techniques for passwords (see 8.24).
Other information
Passwords or passphrases are a commonly used type of authentication information and are a common 
means of verifying a user’s identity. Other types of authentication information are cryptographic keys, 
data stored on hardware tokens (e.g. smart cards) that produce authentication codes and biometric 
data such as iris scans or fingerprints. Additional information can be found in the ISO/IEC 24760 series.
Requiring frequent change of passwords can be problematic because users can get annoyed by the 
frequent changes, forget new passwords, note them down in unsafe places, or choose unsafe passwords. 
Provision of single sign on (SSO) or other authentication management tools (e.g. password vaults) 
reduces the amount of authentication information that users are required to protect and can thereby 
increase the effectiveness of this control. However, these tools can also increase the impact of disclosure 
of authentication information.
Some applications require user passwords to be assigned by an independent authority. In such cases, a), 
c) and d) of "Password management system" do not apply.
© ISO/IEC 2022 – All rights reserved	
﻿
﻿
31
