ISO/IEC 27002:2022(E)
Review of access rights
Regular reviews of physical and logical access rights should consider the following:
a)	 users’ access rights after any change within the same organization (e.g. job change, promotion, 
demotion) or termination of employment (see 6.1 to 6.5);
b)	 authorizations for privileged access rights.
Consideration before change or termination of employment
A user’s access rights to information and other associated assets should be reviewed and adjusted or 
removed before any change or termination of employment based on the evaluation of risk factors such 
as:
a)	 whether the termination or change is initiated by the user or by management and the reason for 
termination;
b)	 the current responsibilities of the user;
c)	
the value of the assets currently accessible.
Other information
Consideration should be given to establishing user access roles based on business requirements that 
summarize a number of access rights into typical user access profiles. Access requests and reviews of 
access rights are easier managed at the level of such roles than at the level of particular rights.
Consideration should be given to including clauses in personnel contracts and service contracts that 
specify sanctions if unauthorized access is attempted by personnel (see 5.20, 6.2, 6.4, 6.6).
In cases of management-initiated termination, disgruntled personnel or external party users can 
deliberately corrupt information or sabotage information processing facilities. In cases of persons 
resigning or being dismissed, they can be tempted to collect information for future use.
Cloning is an efficient way for organizations to assign access to users. However, it should be done 
with care based on distinct roles identified by the organization rather than just cloning an identity 
with all associated access rights. Cloning has an inherent risk of resulting in excessive access rights to 
information and other associated assets.
5.19	Information security in supplier relationships
Control type
Information
security properties
Cybersecurity
concepts
Operational
capabilities
Security domains
#Preventive
#Confidentiality
#Integrity
#Availability
#Identify
#Supplier_relation­
ships_security
#Governance_and_
Ecosystem #Protec­
tion
Control
Processes and procedures should be defined and implemented to manage the information security 
risks associated with the use of supplier’s products or services.
Purpose
To maintain an agreed level of information security in supplier relationships.
Guidance
The organization should establish and communicate a topic-specific policy on supplier relationships to 
all relevant interested parties.
© ISO/IEC 2022 – All rights reserved	
﻿
﻿
33
