ISO/IEC 27002:2022(E)
3)	 determining ownership of intellectual property developed during the engagement;
4)	 information portability in case of change of supplier or insourcing;
6)	 records management;
7)	 return of assets;
8)	 secure disposal of information and other associated assets;
9)	 ongoing confidentiality requirements;
n)	 level of personnel security and physical security expected from supplier's personnel and facilities.
The procedures for continuing information processing in the event that the supplier becomes unable to 
supply its products or services (e.g. because of an incident, because the supplier is no longer in business, 
or no longer provides some components due to technology advancements) should be considered to 
avoid any delay in arranging replacement products or services (e.g. identifying an alternative supplier 
in advance or always using alternative suppliers).
Other information
In cases where it is not possible for an organization to place requirements on a supplier, the organization 
should:
a)	 consider the guidance given in this control in making decisions about choosing a supplier and its 
product or service;
b)	 implement compensating controls as necessary based on a risk assessment.
Information can be put at risk by suppliers with inadequate information security management. Controls 
should be determined and applied to manage the supplier's access to information and other associated 
assets. For example, if there is a special need for confidentiality of the information, non-disclosure 
agreements or cryptographic techniques can be used. Another example is personal data protection 
risks when the supplier agreement involves transfer of, or access to, information across borders. The 
organization needs to be aware that the legal or contractual responsibility for protecting information 
remains with the organization.
Risks can also be caused by inadequate controls of ICT infrastructure components or services provided 
by suppliers. Malfunctioning or vulnerable components or services can cause information security 
breaches in the organization or to another entity (e.g. they can cause malware infection, attacks or 
other harm on entities other than the organization).
See ISO/IEC 27036-2 for more detail.
5.20	Addressing information security within supplier agreements
Control type
Information
security properties
Cybersecurity
concepts
Operational
capabilities
Security domains
#Preventive
#Confidentiality
#Integrity
#Availability
#Identify
#Supplier_relation­
ships_security
#Governance_and_
Ecosystem #Protec­
tion
Control
Relevant information security requirements should be established and agreed with each supplier based 
on the type of supplier relationship.
Purpose
To maintain an agreed level of information security in supplier relationships.
© ISO/IEC 2022 – All rights reserved	
﻿
﻿
35
