ISO/IEC 27002:2022(E)
q)	 supplier’s obligation to periodically deliver a report on the effectiveness of controls and agreement 
on timely correction of relevant issues raised in the report;
r)	
defect resolution and conflict resolution processes;
s)	
providing backup aligned with the organization’s needs (in terms of frequency and type and 
storage location);
t)	
ensuring the availability of an alternate facility (i.e. disaster recovery site) not subject to the same 
threats as the primary facility and considerations for fall back controls (alternate controls) in the 
event primary controls fail;
u)	 having a change management process that ensures advance notification to the organization and 
the possibility for the organization of not accepting changes;
v)	 physical security controls commensurate with the information classification;
w)	 information transfer controls to protect the information during physical transfer or logical 
transmission;
x)	 termination clauses upon conclusion of the agreement including records management, return of 
assets, secure disposal of information and other associated assets, and any ongoing confidentiality 
obligations;
y)	 provision of a method of securely destroying the organization’s information stored by the supplier 
as soon as it is no longer required;
z)	
ensuring, at the end of the contract, handover support to another supplier or to the organization 
itself.
The organization should establish and maintain a register of agreements with external parties (e.g. 
contracts, memorandum of understanding, information-sharing agreements) to keep track of where 
their information is going. The organization should also regularly review, validate and update their 
agreements with external parties to ensure they are still required and fit for purpose with relevant 
information security clauses.
Other information
The agreements can vary considerably for different organizations and among the different types 
of suppliers. Therefore, care should be taken to include all relevant requirements for addressing 
information security risks.
For details on supplier agreements, see ISO/IEC  27036 series. For cloud service agreements, see 
ISO/IEC 19086 series.
5.21	Managing information security in the ICT supply chain
Control type
Information
security properties
Cybersecurity
concepts
Operational
capabilities
Security domains
#Preventive
#Confidentiality
#Integrity
#Availability
#Identify
#Supplier_relation­
ships_security
#Governance_and_
Ecosystem #Protec­
tion
Control
Processes and procedures should be defined and implemented to manage the information security 
risks associated with the ICT products and services supply chain.
Purpose
To maintain an agreed level of information security in supplier relationships.
© ISO/IEC 2022 – All rights reserved	
﻿
﻿
37
