ISO/IEC 27002:2022(E)
Organizations are advised to work with suppliers to understand the ICT supply chain and any matters 
that have an important effect on the products and services being provided. The organization can 
influence ICT supply chain information security practices by making clear in agreements with their 
suppliers the matters that should be addressed by other suppliers in the ICT supply chain.
ICT should be acquired from reputable sources. The reliability of software and hardware is a matter 
of quality control. While it is generally not possible for an organization to inspect the quality control 
systems of its vendors, it can make reliable judgments based on the reputation of the vendor.
ICT supply chain as addressed here includes cloud services.
Examples of ICT supply chains are:
a)	 cloud services provisioning, where the cloud service provider relies on the software developers, 
telecommunication service providers, hardware providers;
b)	 IoT, where the service involves the device manufacturers, the cloud service providers (e.g. the 
IoT platform operators), the developers for mobile and web applications, the vendor of software 
libraries;
c)	
hosting services, where the provider relies on external service desks including first, second and 
third support levels.
See ISO/IEC 27036-3 for more details including risk assessment guidance.
Software identification (SWID) tags can also help to achieve better information security in the supply 
chain, by providing information about software provenance. See ISO/IEC 19770-2 for more details.
5.22	Monitoring, review and change management of supplier services
Control type
Information
security properties
Cybersecurity
concepts
Operational
capabilities
Security domains
#Preventive
#Confidentiality
#Integrity
#Availability
#Identify
#Supplier_relation­
ships_security
#Governance_and_
Ecosystem #Protec­
tion
#Defence
#Information_secu­
rity_assurance
Control
The organization should regularly monitor, review, evaluate and manage change in supplier information 
security practices and service delivery.
Purpose
To maintain an agreed level of information security and service delivery in line with supplier 
agreements.
Guidance
Monitoring, review and change management of supplier services should ensure the information 
security terms and conditions of the agreements are complied with, information security incidents 
and problems are managed properly and changes in supplier services or business status do not affect 
service delivery.
This should involve a process to manage the relationship between the organization and the supplier to:
a)	 monitor service performance levels to verify compliance with the agreements;
© ISO/IEC 2022 – All rights reserved	
﻿
﻿
39
