ISO/IEC 27002:2022(E)
5.23	Information security for use of cloud services
Control type
Information
security properties
Cybersecurity
concepts
Operational
capabilities
Security domains
#Preventive
#Confidentiality
#Integrity
#Availability
#Protect
#Supplier_relation­
ships_security
#Governance_and_
Ecosystem #Protec­
tion
Control
Processes for acquisition, use, management and exit from cloud services should be established in 
accordance with the organization’s information security requirements.
Purpose
To specify and manage information security for the use of cloud services.
Guidance
The organization should establish and communicate topic-specific policy on the use of cloud services to 
all relevant interested parties.
The organization should define and communicate how it intends to manage information security risks 
associated with the use of cloud services. It can be an extension or part of the existing approach for how 
an organization manages services provided by external parties (see 5.21 and 5.22).
The use of cloud services can involve shared responsibility for information security and collaborative 
effort between the cloud service provider and the organization acting as the cloud service customer. It 
is essential that the responsibilities for both the cloud service provider and the organization, acting as 
the cloud service customer, are defined and implemented appropriately.
The organization should define:
a)	 all relevant information security requirements associated with the use of the cloud services;
b)	 cloud service selection criteria and scope of cloud service usage;
c)	
roles and responsibilities related to the use and management of cloud services;
d)	 which information security controls are managed by the cloud service provider and which are 
managed by the organization as the cloud service customer;
e)	 how to obtain and utilize information security capabilities provided by the cloud service provider;
f)	
how to obtain assurance on information security controls implemented by cloud service providers;
g)	 how to manage controls, interfaces and changes in services when an organization uses multiple 
cloud services, particularly from different cloud service providers;
h)	 procedures for handling information security incidents that occur in relation to the use of cloud 
services;
i)	
its approach for monitoring, reviewing and evaluating the ongoing use of cloud services to manage 
information security risks;
j)	
how to change or stop the use of cloud services including exit strategies for cloud services.
Cloud service agreements are often pre-defined and not open to negotiation. For all cloud services, 
the organization should review cloud service agreements with the cloud service provider(s). A cloud 
service agreement should address the confidentiality, integrity, availability and information handling 
requirements of the organization, with appropriate cloud service level objectives and cloud service 
qualitative objectives. The organization should also undertake relevant risk assessments to identify 
© ISO/IEC 2022 – All rights reserved	
﻿
﻿
41
