ISO/IEC 27002:2022(E)
the risks associated with using the cloud service. Any residual risks connected to the use of the cloud 
service should be clearly identified and accepted by the appropriate management of the organization.
An agreement between the cloud service provider and the organization, acting as the cloud service 
customer, should include the following provisions for the protection of the organization’s data and 
availability of services:
a)	 providing solutions based on industry accepted standards for architecture and infrastructure;
b)	 managing access controls of the cloud service to meet the requirements of the organization;
c)	
implementing malware monitoring and protection solutions;
d)	 processing and storing the organization’s sensitive information in approved locations (e.g. 
particular country or region) or within or subject to a particular jurisdiction;
e)	 providing dedicated support in the event of an information security incident in the cloud service 
environment;
f)	
ensuring that the organization’s information security requirements are met in the event of cloud 
services being further sub-contracted to an external supplier (or prohibiting cloud services from 
being sub-contracted);
g)	 supporting the organization in gathering digital evidence, taking into consideration laws and 
regulations for digital evidence across different jurisdictions;
h)	 providing appropriate support and availability of services for an appropriate time frame when the 
organization wants to exit from the cloud service;
i)	
providing required backup of data and configuration information and securely managing backups 
as applicable, based on the capabilities of the cloud service provider used by the organization, 
acting as the cloud service customer;
j)	
providing and returning information such as configuration files, source code and data that are 
owned by the organization, acting as the cloud service customer, when requested during the 
service provision or at termination of service.
The organization, acting as the cloud service customer, should consider whether the agreement should 
require cloud service providers to provide advance notification prior to any substantive customer 
impacting changes being made to the way the service is delivered to the organization, including:
a)	 changes to the technical infrastructure (e.g. relocation, reconfiguration, or changes in hardware or 
software) that affect or change the cloud service offering;
b)	 processing or storing information in a new geographical or legal jurisdiction;
c)	
use of peer cloud service providers or other sub-contractors (including changing existing or using 
new parties).
The organization using cloud services should maintain close contact with its cloud service providers. 
These contacts enable mutual exchange of information about information security for the use of the 
cloud services including a mechanism for both cloud service provider and the organization, acting as the 
cloud service customer, to monitor each service characteristic and report failures to the commitments 
contained in the agreements.
Other information
This control considers cloud security from the perspective of the cloud service customer.
Additional information relating to cloud services can be found in ISO/IEC 17788, ISO/IEC 17789 and 
ISO/IEC 22123-1. Specifics related to cloud portability in support of exit strategies can be found in 
ISO/IEC  19941. Specifics related to information security and public cloud services are described in 
ISO/IEC 27017. Specifics related to PII protection in public clouds acting as PII processor are described 
	
﻿
© ISO/IEC 2022 – All rights reserved

﻿
42
