ISO/IEC 27002:2022(E)
in ISO/IEC 27018. Supplier relationships for cloud services are covered by ISO/IEC 27036-4 and cloud 
service agreements and their contents are dealt with in the ISO/IEC 19086 series, with security and 
privacy specifically covered by ISO/IEC 19086-4.
5.24	Information security incident management planning and preparation
Control type
Information
security properties
Cybersecurity
concepts
Operational
capabilities
Security domains
#Corrective
#Confidentiality
#Integrity
#Availability
#Respond #Recover
#Governance
#Information_securi­
ty_event_management
#Defence
Control
The organization should plan and prepare for managing information security incidents by defining, 
establishing and communicating information security incident management processes, roles and 
responsibilities.
Purpose
To ensure quick, effective, consistent and orderly response to information security incidents, including 
communication on information security events.
Guidance
Roles and responsibilities
The organization should establish appropriate information security incident management processes. 
Roles and responsibilities to carry out the incident management procedures should be determined and 
effectively communicated to the relevant internal and external interested parties.
The following should be considered:
a)	 establishing a common method for reporting information security events including point of contact 
(see 6.8);
b)	 establishing an incident management process to provide the organization with capability for 
managing information security incidents including administration, documentation, detection, 
triage, prioritization, analysis, communication and coordinating interested parties;
c)	
establishing an incident response process to provide the organization with capability for assessing, 
responding to and learning from information security incidents;
d)	 only allowing competent personnel to handle the issues related to information security incidents 
within the organization. Such personnel should be provided with procedure documentation and 
periodic training;
e)	 establishing a process to identify required training, certification and ongoing professional 
development for incident response personnel.
Incident management procedures
The objectives for information security incident management should be agreed with management and 
it should be ensured that those responsible for information security incident management understand 
the organization’s priorities for handling information security incidents including resolution time 
frame based on potential consequences and severity. Incident management procedures should be 
implemented to meet these objectives and priorities.
Management should ensure that an information security incident management plan is created 
considering different scenarios and procedures are developed and implemented for the following 
activities:
© ISO/IEC 2022 – All rights reserved	
﻿
﻿
43
