ISO/IEC 27002:2022(E)
Control
The organization should assess information security events and decide if they are to be categorized as 
information security incidents.
Purpose
To ensure effective categorization and prioritization of information security events.
Guidance
A categorization and prioritization scheme of information security incidents should be agreed for the 
identification of the consequences and priority of an incident. The scheme should include the criteria to 
categorize events as information security incidents. The point of contact should assess each information 
security event using the agreed scheme.
Personnel responsible for coordinating and responding to information security incidents should 
perform the assessment and make a decision on information security events.
Results of the assessment and decision should be recorded in detail for the purpose of future reference 
and verification.
Other information
The ISO/IEC 27035 series provides further guidance on incident management.
5.26	Response to information security incidents
Control type
Information
security properties
Cybersecurity
concepts
Operational
capabilities
Security domains
#Corrective
#Confidentiality
#Integrity
#Availability
#Respond #Recover
#Information_securi­
ty_event_management
#Defence
Control
Information security incidents should be responded to in accordance with the documented procedures.
Purpose
To ensure efficient and effective response to information security incidents.
Guidance
The organization should establish and communicate procedures on information security incident 
response to all relevant interested parties.
Information security incidents should be responded to by a designated team with the required 
competency (see 5.24).
The response should include the following:
a)	 containing, if the consequences of the incident can spread, the systems affected by the incident;
b)	 collecting evidence (see 5.28) as soon as possible after the occurrence;
c)	
escalation, as required including crisis management activities and possibly invoking business 
continuity plans (see 5.29 and 5.30);
d)	 ensuring that all involved response activities are properly logged for later analysis;
e)	 communicating the existence of the information security incident or any relevant details thereof to 
all relevant internal and external interested parties following the need-to-know principle;
© ISO/IEC 2022 – All rights reserved	
﻿
﻿
45
