ISO/IEC 27002:2022(E)
5.28	Collection of evidence
Control type
Information
security properties
Cybersecurity
concepts
Operational
capabilities
Security domains
#Corrective
#Confidentiality
#Integrity
#Availability
#Detect #Respond
#Information_secu­
rity_event_manage­
ment
#Defence
Control
The organization should establish and implement procedures for the identification, collection, 
acquisition and preservation of evidence related to information security events.
Purpose
To ensure a consistent and effective management of evidence related to information security incidents 
for the purposes of disciplinary and legal actions.
Guidance
Internal procedures should be developed and followed when dealing with evidence related to 
information security events for the purposes of disciplinary and legal actions. The requirements of 
different jurisdictions should be considered to maximize chances of admission across the relevant 
jurisdictions.
In general, these procedures for the management of evidence should provide instructions for the 
identification, collection, acquisition and preservation of evidence in accordance with different types 
of storage media, devices and status of devices (i.e. powered on or off). Evidence typically needs to be 
collected in a manner that is admissible in the appropriate national courts of law or another disciplinary 
forum. It should be possible to show that:
a)	 records are complete and have not been tampered with in any way;
b)	 copies of electronic evidence are probably identical to the originals;
c)	
any information system from which evidence has been gathered was operating correctly at the 
time the evidence was recorded.
Where available, certification or other relevant means of qualification of personnel and tools should be 
sought, so as to strengthen the value of the preserved evidence.
Digital evidence can transcend organizational or jurisdictional boundaries. In such cases, it should be 
ensured that the organization is entitled to collect the required information as digital evidence.
Other information
When an information security event is first detected, it is not always obvious whether or not the 
event will result in court action. Therefore, the danger exists that necessary evidence is destroyed 
intentionally or accidentally before the seriousness of the incident is realized. It is advisable to involve 
legal advice or law enforcement early in any contemplated legal action and take advice on the evidence 
required.
ISO/IEC  27037 provides definitions and guidelines for identification, collection, acquisition and 
preservation of digital evidence.
The ISO/IEC 27050 series deals with electronic discovery, which involves the processing of electronically 
stored information as evidence.
© ISO/IEC 2022 – All rights reserved	
﻿
﻿
47
