ISO/IEC 27002:2022(E)
5.29	Information security during disruption
Control type
Information
security properties
Cybersecurity
concepts
Operational
capabilities
Security domains
#Preventive #Cor­
rective
#Confidentiality
#Integrity
#Availability
#Protect #Respond
#Continuity
#Protection
#Resilience
Control
The organization should plan how to maintain information security at an appropriate level during 
disruption.
Purpose
To protect information and other associated assets during disruption.
Guidance
The organization should determine its requirements for adapting information security controls 
during disruption. Information security requirements should be included in the business continuity 
management processes.
Plans should be developed, implemented, tested, reviewed and evaluated to maintain or restore the 
security of information of critical business processes following interruption or failure. Security of 
information should be restored at the required level and in the required time frames.
The organization should implement and maintain:
a)	 information security controls, supporting systems and tools within business continuity and ICT 
continuity plans;
b)	 processes to maintain existing information security controls during disruption;
c)	
compensating controls for information security controls that cannot be maintained during 
disruption.
Other information
In the context of business continuity and ICT continuity planning, it can be necessary to adapt 
the information security requirements depending on the type of disruption, compared to normal 
operational conditions. As part of the business impact analysis and risk assessment performed 
within business continuity management, the consequences of loss of confidentiality and integrity of 
information should be considered and prioritized in addition to the need for maintaining availability.
Information on business continuity management systems can be found in ISO 22301 and ISO 22313. 
Further guidance on business impact analysis (BIA) can be found in ISO/TS 22317.
5.30	ICT readiness for business continuity
Control type
Information
security properties
Cybersecurity
concepts
Operational
capabilities
Security domains
#Corrective
#Availability
#Respond
#Continuity
#Resilience
Control
ICT readiness should be planned, implemented, maintained and tested based on business continuity 
objectives and ICT continuity requirements.
	
﻿
© ISO/IEC 2022 – All rights reserved

﻿
48
