ISO/IEC 27002:2022(E)
5.33	Protection of records
Control type
Information
security properties
Cybersecurity
concepts
Operational
capabilities
Security do­
mains
#Preventive
#Confidentiality
#Integrity
#Availability
#Identify #Protect
#Legal_and_compliance
#Asset_management
#Information_protec­
tion
#Defence
Control
Records should be protected from loss, destruction, falsification, unauthorized access and unauthorized 
release.
Purpose
To ensure compliance with legal, statutory, regulatory and contractual requirements, as well as 
community or societal expectations related to the protection and availability of records.
Guidance
The organization should take the following steps to protect the authenticity, reliability, integrity and 
usability of records, as their business context and requirements for their management change over 
time:
a)	 issue guidelines on the storage, handling chain of custody and disposal of records, which includes 
prevention of manipulation of records. These guidelines should be aligned with the organization’s 
topic-specific policy on records management and other records requirements;
b)	 draw up a retention schedule defining records and the period of time for which they should be 
retained.
The system of storage and handling should ensure identification of records and of their retention 
period taking into consideration national or regional legislation or regulations, as well as community or 
societal expectations, if applicable. This system should permit appropriate destruction of records after 
that period if they are not needed by the organization.
When deciding on protection of specific organizational records, their corresponding information 
security classification, based on the organization’s classification scheme, should be considered. 
Records should be categorized into record types (e.g. accounting records, business transaction records, 
personnel records, legal records), each with details of retention periods and type of allowable storage 
media which can be physical or electronic.
Data storage systems should be chosen such that required records can be retrieved in an acceptable 
time frame and format, depending on the requirements to be fulfilled.
Where electronic storage media are chosen, procedures to ensure the ability to access records (both 
storage media and format readability) throughout the retention period should be established to 
safeguard against loss due to future technology change. Any related cryptographic keys and programs 
associated with encrypted archives or digital signatures, should also be retained to enable decryption 
of the records for the length of time the records are retained (see 8.24).
Storage and handling procedures should be implemented in accordance with recommendations 
provided by manufacturers of storage media. Consideration should be given to the possibility of 
deterioration of media used for storage of records.
Other information
Records document individual events or transactions or can form aggregations that have been designed 
to document work processes, activities or functions. They are both evidence of business activity and 
information assets. Any set of information, regardless of its structure or form, can be managed as a 
© ISO/IEC 2022 – All rights reserved	
﻿
﻿
53
