ISO/IEC 27002:2022(E)
record. This includes information in the form of a document, a collection of data or other types of digital 
or analogue information which are created, captured and managed in the course of business.
In the management of records, metadata is data describing the context, content and structure of 
records, as well as their management over time. Metadata is an essential component of any record.
It can be necessary to retain some records securely to meet legal, statutory, regulatory or contractual 
requirements, as well as to support essential business activities. National law or regulation can set the 
time period and data content for information retention. Further information about records management 
can be found in ISO 15489.
5.34	Privacy and protection of PII
Control type
Information
security properties
Cybersecurity
concepts
Operational
capabilities
Security do­
mains
#Preventive
#Confidentiality
#Integrity
#Availability
#Identify #Protect
#Information_protection
#Legal_and_compliance
#Protection
Control
The organization should identify and meet the requirements regarding the preservation of privacy and 
protection of PII according to applicable laws and regulations and contractual requirements.
Purpose
To ensure compliance with legal, statutory, regulatory and contractual requirements related to the 
information security aspects of the protection of PII.
Guidance
The organization should establish and communicate a topic-specific policy on privacy and protection of 
PII to all relevant interested parties.
The organization should develop and implement procedures for the preservation of privacy and 
protection of PII. These procedures should be communicated to all relevant interested parties involved 
in the processing of personally identifiable information.
Compliance with these procedures and all relevant legislation and regulations concerning the 
preservation of privacy and protection of PII requires appropriate roles, responsibilities and controls. 
Often this is best achieved by the appointment of a person responsible, such as a privacy officer, who 
should provide guidance to personnel, service providers and other interested parties on their individual 
responsibilities and the specific procedures that should be followed.
Responsibility for handling PII should be dealt with taking into consideration relevant legislation and 
regulations.
Appropriate technical and organizational measures to protect PII should be implemented.
Other information
A number of countries have introduced legislation placing controls on the collection, processing, 
transmission and deletion of PII. Depending on the respective national legislation, such controls can 
impose duties on those collecting, processing and disseminating PII and can also restrict the authority 
to transfer PII to other countries.
ISO/IEC 29100 provides a high-level framework for the protection of PII within ICT systems. Further 
information on privacy information management systems can be found in ISO/IEC  27701. Specific 
information regarding privacy information management for public clouds acting as PII processors can 
be found in ISO/IEC 27018.
	
﻿
© ISO/IEC 2022 – All rights reserved

﻿
54
