ISO/IEC 27002:2022(E)
ISO/IEC 29134 provides guidelines for privacy impact assessment (PIA) and gives an example of the 
structure and content of a PIA report. Compared with ISO/IEC 27005, this is focused on PII processing 
and relevant to those organizations that process PII. This can help identify privacy risks and possible 
mitigations to reduce these risks to acceptable levels.
5.35	Independent review of information security
Control type
Information
security properties
Cybersecurity
concepts
Operational
capabilities
Security domains
#Preventive #Cor­
rective
#Confidentiality
#Integrity
#Availability
#Identify #Protect
#Information_secu­
rity_assurance
#Governance_and_
Ecosystem
Control
The organization’s approach to managing information security and its implementation including people, 
processes and technologies should be reviewed independently at planned intervals, or when significant 
changes occur.
Purpose
To ensure the continuing suitability, adequacy and effectiveness of the organization’s approach to 
managing information security.
Guidance
The organization should have processes to conduct independent reviews.
Management should plan and initiate periodic independent reviews. The reviews should include 
assessing opportunities for improvement and the need for changes to the approach to information 
security, including the information security policy, topic-specific policies and other controls.
Such reviews should be carried out by individuals independent of the area under review (e.g. the 
internal audit function, an independent manager or an external party organization specializing in such 
reviews). Individuals carrying out these reviews should have the appropriate competence. The person 
conducting the reviews should not be in the line of authority to ensure they have the independence to 
make an assessment.
The results of the independent reviews should be reported to the management who initiated the 
reviews and, if appropriate, to top management. These records should be maintained.
If the independent reviews identify that the organization’s approach and implementation to managing 
information security is inadequate [e.g. documented objectives and requirements are not met or are 
not compliant with the direction for information security stated in the information security policy and 
topic-specific policies (see 5.1)], management should initiate corrective actions.
In addition to the periodic independent reviews, the organization should consider conducting 
independent reviews when:
a)	 laws and regulations which affect the organization change;
b)	 significant incidents occur;
c)	
the organization starts a new business or changes a current business;
d)	 the organization starts to use a new product or service, or changes the use of a current product or 
service;
e)	 the organization changes the information security controls and procedures significantly.
© ISO/IEC 2022 – All rights reserved	
﻿
﻿
55
