ISO/IEC 27002:2022(E)
Other information
ISO/IEC 27007 and ISO/IEC TS 27008 provide guidance for carrying out independent reviews.
5.36	Compliance with policies, rules and standards for information security
Control type
Information
security properties
Cybersecurity 
concepts
Operational capabil­
ities
Security domains
#Preventive
#Confidentiality
#Integrity
#Availability
#Identify #Protect
#Legal_and_compli­
ance
#Information_securi­
ty_assurance
#Governance_and_
Ecosystem
Control
Compliance with the organization’s information security policy, topic-specific policies, rules and 
standards should be regularly reviewed.
Purpose
To ensure that information security is implemented and operated in accordance with the organization’s 
information security policy, topic-specific policies, rules and standards.
Guidance
Managers, service, product or information owners should identify how to review that information 
security requirements defined in the information security policy, topic-specific policies, rules, 
standards and other applicable regulations are met. Automatic measurement and reporting tools 
should be considered for efficient regular review.
If any non-compliance is found as a result of the review, managers should:
a)	 identify the causes of the non-compliance;
b)	 evaluate the need for corrective actions to achieve compliance;
c)	
implement appropriate corrective actions;
d)	 review corrective actions taken to verify its effectiveness and identify any deficiencies or 
weaknesses.
Results of reviews and corrective actions carried out by managers, service, product or information 
owners should be recorded and these records should be maintained. Managers should report the results 
to the persons carrying out independent reviews (see 5.35) when an independent review takes place in 
the area of their responsibility.
Corrective actions should be completed in a timely manner as appropriate to the risk. If not completed 
by the next scheduled review, progress should at least be addressed at that review.
Other information
Operational monitoring of system use is covered in 8.15, 8.16, 8.17.
	
﻿
© ISO/IEC 2022 – All rights reserved

﻿
56
