ISO/IEC 27002:2022(E)
j)	
the management of audit trail and system log information (see 8.15 and 8.17) and video monitoring 
systems (see 7.4);
k)	 monitoring procedures such as capacity, performance and security (see 8.6 and 8.16);
l)	
maintenance instructions.
Documented operating procedures should be reviewed and updated when needed. Changes to 
documented operating procedures should be authorized. Where technically feasible, information 
systems should be managed consistently, using the same procedures, tools and utilities.
Other information
No other information.
6	 People controls
6.1	 Screening
Control type
Information
security properties
Cybersecurity
concepts
Operational
capabilities
Security domains
#Preventive
#Confidentiality
#Integrity
#Availability
#Protect
#Human_resource_
security
#Governance_and_
Ecosystem
Control
Background verification checks on all candidates to become personnel should be carried out prior to 
joining the organization and on an ongoing basis taking into consideration applicable laws, regulations 
and ethics and be proportional to the business requirements, the classification of the information to be 
accessed and the perceived risks.
Purpose
To ensure all personnel are eligible and suitable for the roles for which they are considered and remain 
eligible and suitable during their employment.
Guidance
A screening process should be performed for all personnel including full-time, part-time and temporary 
staff. Where these individuals are contracted through suppliers of services, screening requirements 
should be included in the contractual agreements between the organization and the suppliers.
Information on all candidates being considered for positions within the organization should be collected 
and handled taking into consideration any appropriate legislation existing in the relevant jurisdiction. 
In some jurisdictions, the organization can be legally required to inform the candidates beforehand 
about the screening activities.
Verification should take into consideration all relevant privacy, PII protection and employment-based 
legislation and should, where permitted, include the following:
a)	 availability of satisfactory references (e.g. business and personal references);
b)	 a verification (for completeness and accuracy) of the applicant’s curriculum vitae;
c)	
confirmation of claimed academic and professional qualifications;
d)	 independent identity verification (e.g. passport or other acceptable document issued by appropriate 
authorities);
	
﻿
© ISO/IEC 2022 – All rights reserved

﻿
58
