ISO/IEC 27002:2022(E)
e)	 more detailed verification, such as credit review or review of criminal records if the candidate 
takes on a critical role.
When an individual is hired for a specific information security role, the organization should make sure 
the candidate:
a)	 has the necessary competence to perform the security role;
b)	 can be trusted to take on the role, especially if the role is critical for the organization.
Where a job, either on initial appointment or on promotion, involves the person having access to 
information processing facilities and, in particular, if these involve handling confidential information 
(e.g. financial information, personal information or health care information) the organization should 
also consider further, more detailed verifications.
Procedures should define criteria and limitations for verification reviews (e.g. who is eligible to screen 
people and how, when and why verification reviews are carried out).
In situations where verification cannot be completed in a timely manner, mitigating controls should be 
implemented until the review has been finished, for example:
a)	 delayed onboarding;
b)	 delayed deployment of corporate assets;
c)	
onboarding with reduced access;
d)	 termination of employment.
Verification checks should be repeated periodically to confirm ongoing suitability of personnel, 
depending on the criticality of a person’s role.
Other information
No other information.
6.2	 Terms and conditions of employment
Control type
Information
security properties
Cybersecurity
concepts
Operational
capabilities
Security domains
#Preventive
#Confidentiality
#Integrity
#Availability
#Protect
#Human_resource_
security
#Governance_and_
Ecosystem
Control
The employment contractual agreements should state the personnel’s and the organization’s 
responsibilities for information security.
Purpose
To ensure personnel understand their information security responsibilities for the roles for which they 
are considered.
Guidance
The contractual obligations for personnel should take into consideration the organization’s information 
security policy and relevant topic-specific policies. In addition, the following points can be clarified and 
stated:
© ISO/IEC 2022 – All rights reserved	
﻿
﻿
59
