ISO/IEC 27002:2022(E)
a)	 confidentiality or non-disclosure agreements that personnel who are given access to confidential 
information should sign prior to being given access to information and other associated assets (see 
6.6);
b)	 legal responsibilities and rights [e.g. regarding copyright laws or data protection legislation (see 
5.32 and 5.34)];
c)	
responsibilities for the classification of information and management of the organization’s 
information and other associated assets, information processing facilities and information services 
handled by the personnel (see 5.9 to 5.13);
d)	 responsibilities for the handling of information received from interested parties;
e)	 actions to be taken if personnel disregard the organization’s security requirements (see 6.4).
Information security roles and responsibilities should be communicated to candidates during the pre-
employment process.
The organization should ensure that personnel agree to terms and conditions concerning information 
security. These terms and conditions should be appropriate to the nature and extent of access they 
will have to the organization’s assets associated with information systems and services. The terms and 
conditions concerning information security should be reviewed when laws, regulations, the information 
security policy or topic-specific policies change.
Where appropriate, responsibilities contained within the terms and conditions of employment should 
continue for a defined period after the end of the employment (see 6.5).
Other information
A code of conduct can be used to state personnel’s information security responsibilities regarding 
confidentiality, PII protection, ethics, appropriate use of the organization’s information and other 
associated assets, as well as reputable practices expected by the organization.
An external party, with which supplier personnel are associated, can be required to enter into 
contractual agreements on behalf of the contracted individual.
If the organization is not a legal entity and does not have employees, the equivalent of contractual 
agreement and terms and conditions can be considered in line with the guidance of this control.
6.3	 Information security awareness, education and training
Control type
Information
security properties
Cybersecurity
concepts
Operational
capabilities
Security domains
#Preventive
#Confidentiality
#Integrity
#Availability
#Protect
#Human_resource_
security
#Governance_and_
Ecosystem
Control
Personnel of the organization and relevant interested parties should receive appropriate information 
security awareness, education and training and regular updates of the organization's information 
security policy, topic-specific policies and procedures, as relevant for their job function.
Purpose
To ensure personnel and relevant interested parties are aware of and fulfil their information security 
responsibilities.
	
﻿
© ISO/IEC 2022 – All rights reserved

﻿
60
