ISO/IEC 27002:2022(E)
Guidance
General
An information security awareness, education and training programme should be established in line 
with the organization’s information security policy, topic-specific policies and relevant procedures on 
information security, taking into consideration the organization’s information to be protected and the 
information security controls that have been implemented to protect the information.
Information security awareness, education and training should take place periodically. Initial 
awareness, education and training can apply to new personnel and to those who transfer to new 
positions or roles with substantially different information security requirements.
Personnel’s understanding should be assessed at the end of an awareness, education or training activity 
to test knowledge transfer and the effectiveness of the awareness, education and training programme.
Awareness
An information security awareness programme should aim to make personnel aware of their 
responsibilities for information security and the means by which those responsibilities are discharged.
The awareness programme should be planned taking into consideration the roles of personnel in the 
organization, including internal and external personnel (e.g. external consultants, supplier personnel). 
The activities in the awareness programme should be scheduled over time, preferably regularly, so 
that the activities are repeated and cover new personnel. It should also be built on lessons learnt from 
information security incidents.
The awareness programme should include a number of awareness-raising activities via appropriate 
physical or virtual channels such as campaigns, booklets, posters, newsletters, websites, information 
sessions, briefings, e-learning modules and e-mails.
Information security awareness should cover general aspects such as:
a)	 management’s commitment to information security throughout the organization;
b)	 familiarity and compliance needs concerning applicable information security rules and obligations, 
taking into account information security policy and topic-specific policies, standards, laws, 
statutes, regulations, contracts and agreements;
c)	
personal accountability for one’s own actions and inactions, and general responsibilities towards 
securing or protecting information belonging to the organization and interested parties;
d)	 basic information security procedures [e.g. information security event reporting (6.8)] and baseline 
controls [e.g. password security (5.17)];
e)	 contact points and resources for additional information and advice on information security 
matters, including further information security awareness materials.
Education and training
The organization should identify, prepare and implement an appropriate training plan for technical 
teams whose roles require specific skill sets and expertise. Technical teams should have the skills for 
configuring and maintaining the required security level for devices, systems, applications and services. 
If there are missing skills, the organization should take action and acquire them.
The education and training programme should consider different forms [e.g. lectures or self-studies, 
being mentored by expert staff or consultants (on-the-job training), rotating staff members to follow 
different activities, recruiting already skilled people and hiring consultants]. It can use different means 
of delivery including classroom-based, distance learning, web-based, self-paced and others. Technical 
personnel should keep their knowledge up to date by subscribing to newsletters and magazines or by 
attending conferences and events aimed at technical and professional improvement.
© ISO/IEC 2022 – All rights reserved	
﻿
﻿
61
