ISO/IEC 27002:2022(E)
Other information
When composing an awareness programme, it is important not only to focus on the ’what’ and ’how’, 
but also the ’why’, when possible. It is important that personnel understand the aim of information 
security and the potential effect, positive and negative, on the organization of their own behaviour.
Information security awareness, education and training can be part of, or conducted in collaboration 
with, other activities, for example general information management, ICT, security, privacy or safety 
training.
6.4	 Disciplinary process
Control type
Information
security properties
Cybersecurity
concepts
Operational
capabilities
Security domains
#Preventive #Cor­
rective
#Confidentiality
#Integrity
#Availability
#Protect #Respond
#Human_resource_
security
#Governance_and_
Ecosystem
Control
A disciplinary process should be formalized and communicated to take actions against personnel and 
other relevant interested parties who have committed an information security policy violation.
Purpose
To ensure personnel and other relevant interested parties understand the consequences of information 
security policy violation, to deter and appropriately deal with personnel and other relevant interested 
parties who committed the violation.
Guidance
The disciplinary process should not be initiated without prior verification that an information security 
policy violation has occurred (see 5.28).
The formal disciplinary process should provide for a graduated response that takes into consideration 
factors such as:
a)	 the nature (who, what, when, how) and gravity of the breach and its consequences;
b)	 whether the offence was intentional (malicious) or unintentional (accidental);
c)	
whether or not this is a first or repeated offence;
d)	 whether or not the violator was properly trained.
The response should take into consideration relevant legal, statutory, regulatory contractual and 
business requirements as well as other factors as required. The disciplinary process should also be 
used as a deterrent to prevent personnel and other relevant interested parties from violating the 
information security policy, topic-specific policies and procedures for information security. Deliberate 
information security policy violations can require immediate actions.
Other information
Where possible, the identity of individuals subject to disciplinary action should be protected in line 
with applicable requirements.
When individuals demonstrate excellent behaviour with regard to information security, they can be 
rewarded to promote information security and encourage good behaviour.
	
﻿
© ISO/IEC 2022 – All rights reserved

﻿
62
