ISO/IEC 27002:2022(E)
6.5	 Responsibilities after termination or change of employment
Control type
Information
security properties
Cybersecurity
concepts
Operational
capabilities
Security domains
#Preventive
#Confidentiality
#Integrity
#Availability
#Protect
#Human_resource_
security
#Asset_management
#Governance_and_
Ecosystem
Control
Information security responsibilities and duties that remain valid after termination or change of 
employment should be defined, enforced and communicated to relevant personnel and other interested 
parties.
Purpose
To protect the organization’s interests as part of the process of changing or terminating employment or 
contracts.
Guidance
The process for managing termination or change of employment should define which information 
security responsibilities and duties should remain valid after termination or change. This can 
include confidentiality of information, intellectual property and other knowledge obtained, as well as 
responsibilities contained within any other confidentiality agreement (see 6.6). Responsibilities and 
duties still valid after termination of employment or contract should be contained in the individual’s 
terms and conditions of employment (see 6.2), contract or agreement. Other contracts or agreements 
that continue for a defined period after the end of the individual’s employment can also contain 
information security responsibilities.
Changes of responsibility or employment should be managed as the termination of the current 
responsibility or employment combined with the initiation of the new responsibility or employment.
Information security roles and responsibilities held by any individual who leaves or changes job roles 
should be identified and transferred to another individual.
A process should be established for the communication of the changes and of operating procedures to 
personnel, other interested parties and relevant contact persons (e.g. to customers and suppliers).
The process for the termination or change of employment should also be applied to external personnel 
(i.e. suppliers) when a termination occurs of personnel, the contract or the job with the organization, or 
when there is a change of the job within the organization.
Other information
In many organizations, the human resources function is generally responsible for the overall termination 
process and works together with the supervising manager of the person transitioning to manage the 
information security aspects of the relevant procedures. In the case of personnel provided through an 
external party (e.g. through a supplier), this termination process is undertaken by the external party in 
accordance with the contract between the organization and the external party.
6.6 Confidentiality or non-disclosure agreements
Control type
Information
security properties
Cybersecurity
concepts
Operational
capabilities
Security domains
#Preventive
#Confidentiality
#Protect
#Human_resource_security
#Information_protection
#Supplier_relationships
#Governance_and_
Ecosystem
© ISO/IEC 2022 – All rights reserved	
﻿
﻿
63
