ISO/IEC 27002:2022(E)
They should also be aware of the procedure for reporting information security events and the point of 
contact to which the events should be reported. The reporting mechanism should be as easy, accessible 
and available as possible. Information security events include incidents, breaches and vulnerabilities.
Situations to be considered for information security event reporting include:
a)	 ineffective information security controls;
b)	 breach of information confidentiality, integrity or availability expectations;
c)	
human errors;
d)	 non-compliance with the information security policy, topic-specific policies or applicable standards;
e)	 breaches of physical security measures;
f)	
system changes that have not gone through the change management process;
g)	 malfunctions or other anomalous system behaviour of software or hardware;
h)	 access violations;
i)	
vulnerabilities;
j)	
suspected malware infection.
Personnel and users should be advised not to attempt to prove suspected information security 
vulnerabilities. Testing vulnerabilities can be interpreted as a potential misuse of the system and can 
also cause damage to the information system or service, and it can corrupt or obscure digital evidence. 
Ultimately, this can result in legal liability for the individual performing the testing.
Other information
See the ISO/IEC 27035 series for additional information.
7	 Physical controls
7.1	 Physical security perimeters
Control type
Information
security properties
Cybersecurity
concepts
Operational
capabilities
Security domains
#Preventive
#Confidentiality
#Integrity
#Availability
#Protect
#Physical_security
#Protection
Control
Security perimeters should be defined and used to protect areas that contain information and other 
associated assets.
Purpose
To prevent unauthorized physical access, damage and interference to the organization’s information 
and other associated assets.
Guidance
The following guidelines should be considered and implemented where appropriate for physical 
security perimeters:
a)	 defining security perimeters and the siting and strength of each of the perimeters in accordance 
with the information security requirements related to the assets within the perimeter;
© ISO/IEC 2022 – All rights reserved	
﻿
﻿
67
