ISO/IEC 27002:2022(E)
b)	 having physically sound perimeters for a building or site containing information processing 
facilities (i.e. there should be no gaps in the perimeter or areas where a break-in can easily occur). 
The exterior roofs, walls, ceilings and flooring of the site should be of solid construction and all 
external doors should be suitably protected against unauthorized access with control mechanisms 
(e.g. bars, alarms, locks). Doors and windows should be locked when unattended and external 
protection should be considered for windows, particularly at ground level; ventilation points 
should also be considered;
c)	
alarming, monitoring and testing all fire doors on a security perimeter in conjunction with the 
walls to establish the required level of resistance in accordance with suitable standards. They 
should operate in a failsafe manner.
Other information
Physical protection can be achieved by creating one or more physical barriers around the organization’s 
premises and information processing facilities.
A secure area can be a lockable office or several rooms surrounded by a continuous internal physical 
security barrier. Additional barriers and perimeters to control physical access can be necessary 
between areas with different security requirements inside the security perimeter. The organization 
should consider having physical security measures that can be strengthened during increased threat 
situations.
7.2	 Physical entry
Control type
Information
security properties
Cybersecurity
concepts
Operational
capabilities
Security domains
#Preventive
#Confidentiality
#Integrity
#Availability
#Protect
#Physical_security
#Identity_and_Ac­
cess_Management
#Protection
Control
Secure areas should be protected by appropriate entry controls and access points.
Purpose
To ensure only authorized physical access to the organization’s information and other associated assets 
occurs.
Guidance
General
Access points such as delivery and loading areas and other points where unauthorized persons can 
enter the premises should be controlled and, if possible, isolated from information processing facilities 
to avoid unauthorized access.
The following guidelines should be considered:
a)	 restricting access to sites and buildings to authorized personnel only. The process for the 
management of access rights to physical areas should include the provision, periodical review, 
update and revocation of authorizations (see 5.18);
b)	 securely maintaining and monitoring a physical logbook or electronic audit trail of all access and 
protecting all logs (see 5.33) and sensitive authentication information;
c)	
establishing and implementing a process and technical mechanisms for the management of access 
to areas where information is processed or stored. Authentication mechanisms include the use of 
access cards, biometrics or two-factor authentication such as an access card and secret PIN. Double 
security doors should be considered for access to sensitive areas;
	
﻿
© ISO/IEC 2022 – All rights reserved

﻿
68
