ISO/IEC 27002:2022(E)
Guidance
Physical premises should be monitored by surveillance systems, which can include guards, intruder 
alarms, video monitoring systems such as closed-circuit television and physical security information 
management software either managed internally or by a monitoring service provider.
Access to buildings that house critical systems should be continuously monitored to detect unauthorized 
access or suspicious behaviour by:
a)	 installing video monitoring systems such as closed-circuit television to view and record access to 
sensitive areas within and outside an organization’s premises;
b)	 installing, according to relevant applicable standards, and periodically testing contact, sound or 
motion detectors to trigger an intruder alarm such as:
1)	 installing contact detectors that trigger an alarm when a contact is made or broken in any place 
where a contact can be made or broken (such as windows and doors and underneath objects) 
to be used as a panic alarm;
2)	 motion detectors based on infra-red technology which trigger an alarm when an object passes 
through their field of view;
3)	 installing sensors sensitive to the sound of breaking glass which can be used to trigger an 
alarm to alert security personnel;
c)	
using those alarms to cover all external doors and accessible windows. Unoccupied areas should be 
alarmed at all times; cover should also be provided for other areas (e.g. computer or communications 
rooms).
The design of monitoring systems should be kept confidential because disclosure can facilitate 
undetected break-ins.
Monitoring systems should be protected from unauthorized access in order to prevent surveillance 
information, such as video feeds, from being accessed by unauthorized persons or systems being 
disabled remotely.
The alarm system control panel should be placed in an alarmed zone and, for safety alarms, in a place 
that allows an easy exit route for the person who sets the alarm. The control panel and the detectors 
should have tamperproof mechanisms. The system should regularly be tested to ensure that it is 
working as intended, particularly if its components are battery powered.
Any monitoring and recording mechanism should be used taking into consideration local laws and 
regulations including data protection and PII protection legislation, especially regarding the monitoring 
of personnel and recorded video retention periods.
Other information
No other information.
7.5	 Protecting against physical and environmental threats
Control type
Information
security properties
Cybersecurity
concepts
Operational
capabilities
Security domains
#Preventive
#Confidentiality
#Integrity
#Availability
#Protect
#Physical_security
#Protection
Control
Protection against physical and environmental threats, such as natural disasters and other intentional 
or unintentional physical threats to infrastructure should be designed and implemented.
© ISO/IEC 2022 – All rights reserved	
﻿
﻿
71
