ISO/IEC 27002:2022(E)
Purpose
To prevent or reduce the consequences of events originating from physical and environmental threats.
Guidance
Risk assessments to identify the potential consequences of physical and environmental threats 
should be performed prior to beginning critical operations at a physical site, and at regular intervals. 
Necessary safeguards should be implemented and changes to threats should be monitored. Specialist 
advice should be obtained on how to manage risks arising from physical and environmental threats 
such as fire, flood, earthquake, explosion, civil unrest, toxic waste, environmental emissions and other 
forms of natural disaster or disaster caused by human beings.
Physical premises location and construction should take account of:
a)	 local topography, such as appropriate elevation, bodies of water and tectonic fault lines;
b)	 urban threats, such as locations with a high profile for attracting political unrest, criminal activity 
or terrorist attacks.
Based on risk assessment results, relevant physical and environmental threats should be identified and 
appropriate controls considered in the following contexts as examples:
a)	 fire: installing and configuring systems able to detect fires at an early stage to send alarms or 
trigger fire suppression systems in order to prevent fire damage to storage media and to related 
information processing systems. Fire suppression should be performed using the most appropriate 
substance with regard to the surrounding environment (e.g. gas in confined spaces);
b)	 flooding: installing systems able to detect flooding at an early stage under the floors of areas 
containing storage media or information processing systems. Water pumps or equivalent means 
should be readily made available in case flooding occurs;
c)	
electrical surges: adopting systems able to protect both server and client information systems 
against electrical surges or similar events to minimize the consequences of such events;
d)	 explosives and weapons: performing random inspections for the presence of explosives or weapons 
on personnel, vehicles or goods entering sensitive information processing facilities.
Other information
Safes or other forms of secure storage facilities can protect information stored therein against disasters 
such as a fire, earthquake, flood or explosion.
Organizations can consider the concepts of crime prevention through environmental design when 
designing the controls to secure their environment and reduce urban threats. For example, instead of 
using bollards, statues or water features can serve as both a feature and a physical barrier.
7.6	 Working in secure areas
Control type
Information
security properties
Cybersecurity
concepts
Operational
capabilities
Security domains
#Preventive
#Confidentiality
#Integrity
#Availability
#Protect
#Physical_security
#Protection
Control
Security measures for working in secure areas should be designed and implemented.
	
﻿
© ISO/IEC 2022 – All rights reserved

﻿
72
