ISO/IEC 27002:2022(E)
c)	
leaving user endpoint devices logged off or protected with a screen and keyboard locking 
mechanism controlled by a user authentication mechanism when unattended. All computers and 
systems should be configured with a timeout or automatic logout feature;
d)	 making the originator collect outputs from printers or multi-function devices immediately. The use 
of printers with an authentication function, so the originators are the only ones who can get their 
printouts and only when standing next to the printer;
e)	 securely storing documents and removable storage media containing sensitive information and, 
when no longer required, discarding them using secure disposal mechanisms;
f)	
establishing and communicating rules and guidance for the configuration of pop-ups on screens 
(e.g. turning off the new email and messaging pop-ups, if possible, during presentations, screen 
sharing or in a public area);
g)	 clearing sensitive or critical information on whiteboards and other types of display when no longer 
required.
The organization should have procedures in place when vacating facilities including conducting a final 
sweep prior to leaving to ensure the organization’s assets are not left behind (e.g. documents fallen 
behind drawers or furniture).
Other information
No other information.
7.8	 Equipment siting and protection
Control type
Information
security properties
Cybersecurity
concepts
Operational
capabilities
Security domains
#Preventive
#Confidentiality
#Integrity
#Availability
#Protect
#Physical_security
#Asset_management
#Protection
Control
Equipment should be sited securely and protected.
Purpose
To reduce the risks from physical and environmental threats, and from unauthorized access and 
damage.
Guidance
The following guidelines should be considered to protect equipment:
a)	 siting equipment to minimize unnecessary access into work areas and to avoid unauthorized 
access;
b)	 carefully positioning information processing facilities handling sensitive data to reduce the risk of 
information being viewed by unauthorized persons during their use;
c)	
adopting controls to minimize the risk of potential physical and environmental threats [e.g. theft, 
fire, explosives, smoke, water (or water supply failure), dust, vibration, chemical effects, electrical 
supply interference, communications interference, electromagnetic radiation and vandalism];
d)	 establishing guidelines for eating, drinking and smoking in proximity to information processing 
facilities;
e)	 monitoring environmental conditions, such as temperature and humidity, for conditions which can 
adversely affect the operation of information processing facilities;
	
﻿
© ISO/IEC 2022 – All rights reserved

﻿
74
