ISO/IEC 27002:2022(E)
f)	
applying lightning protection to all buildings and fitting lightning protection filters to all incoming 
power and communications lines;
g)	 considering the use of special protection methods, such as keyboard membranes, for equipment in 
industrial environments;
h)	 protecting equipment processing confidential information to minimize the risk of information 
leakage due to electromagnetic emanation;
i)	
physically separating information processing facilities managed by the organization from those 
not managed by the organization.
Other information
No other information.
7.9	 Security of assets off-premises
Control type
Information
security properties
Cybersecurity
concepts
Operational
capabilities
Security domains
#Preventive
#Confidentiality
#Integrity
#Availability
#Protect
#Physical_security
#Asset_management
#Protection
Control
Off-site assets should be protected.
Purpose
To prevent loss, damage, theft or compromise of off-site devices and interruption to the organization’s 
operations.
Guidance
Any device used outside the organization’s premises which stores or processes information (e.g. mobile 
device), including devices owned by the organization and devices owned privately and used on behalf 
of the organization [bring your own device (BYOD)] needs protection. The use of these devices should 
be authorized by management.
The following guidelines should be considered for the protection of devices which store or process 
information outside the organization’s premises:
a)	 not leaving equipment and storage media taken off premises unattended in public and unsecured 
places;
b)	 observing manufacturers’ instructions for protecting equipment at all times (e.g. protection against 
exposure to strong electromagnetic fields, water, heat, humidity, dust);
c)	
when off-premises equipment is transferred among different individuals or interested parties, 
maintaining a log that defines the chain of custody for the equipment including at least names and 
organizations of those who are responsible for the equipment. Information that does not need to be 
transferred with the asset should be securely deleted before the transfer;
d)	 where necessary and practical, requiring authorization for equipment and media to be removed 
from the organization’s premises and keeping a record of such removals in order to maintain an 
audit trail (see 5.14);
e)	 protecting against viewing information on a device (e.g. mobile or laptop) on public transport, and 
the risks associated with shoulder surfing;
f)	
implementing location tracking and ability for remote wiping of devices.
© ISO/IEC 2022 – All rights reserved	
﻿
﻿
75
