ISO/IEC 27002:2022(E)
g)	 considering the registration of removable storage media to limit the chance for information loss;
h)	 only enabling removable storage media ports [e.g. secure digital (SD) card slots and universal serial 
bus (USB) ports] if there is an organizational reason for their use;
i)	
where there is a need to use removable storage media, monitoring the transfer of information to 
such storage media;
j)	
information can be vulnerable to unauthorized access, misuse or corruption during physical 
transport, for instance when sending storage media via the postal service or via courier.
In this control, media includes paper documents. When transferring physical storage media, apply 
security measures in 5.14.
Secure reuse or disposal
Procedures for the secure reuse or disposal of storage media should be established to minimize the 
risk of confidential information leakage to unauthorized persons. The procedures for secure reuse or 
disposal of storage media containing confidential information should be proportional to the sensitivity 
of that information. The following items should be considered:
a)	 if storage media containing confidential information need to be reused within the organization, 
securely deleting data or formatting the storage media before reuse (see 8.10);
b)	 disposing of storage media containing confidential information securely when not needed anymore 
(e.g. by destroying, shredding or securely deleting the content);
c)	
having procedures in place to identify the items that can require secure disposal;
d)	 many organizations offer collection and disposal services for storage media. Care should be taken 
in selecting a suitable external party supplier with adequate controls and experience;
e)	 logging the disposal of sensitive items in order to maintain an audit trail;
f)	
when accumulating storage media for disposal, giving consideration to the aggregation effect, 
which can cause a large quantity of non-sensitive information to become sensitive.
A risk assessment should be performed on damaged devices containing sensitive data to determine 
whether the items should be physically destroyed rather than sent for repair or discarded (see 7.14).
Other information
When confidential information on storage media is not encrypted, additional physical protection of the 
storage media should be considered.
7.11	Supporting utilities
Control type
Information
security properties
Cybersecurity
concepts
Operational
capabilities
Security domains
#Preventive
#Detective
#Integrity
#Availability
#Protect #Detect
#Physical_security
#Protection
Control
Information processing facilities should be protected from power failures and other disruptions caused 
by failures in supporting utilities.
Purpose
To prevent loss, damage or compromise of information and other associated assets, or interruption to 
the organization’s operations due to failure and disruption of supporting utilities.
© ISO/IEC 2022 – All rights reserved	
﻿
﻿
77
