ISO/IEC 27002:2022(E)
Guidance
Organizations depend on utilities (e.g. electricity, telecommunications, water supply, gas, sewage, 
ventilation and air conditioning) to support their information processing facilities. Therefore, the 
organization should:
a)	 ensure equipment supporting the utilities is configured, operated and maintained in accordance 
with the relevant manufacturer’s specifications;
b)	 ensure utilities are appraised regularly for their capacity to meet business growth and interactions 
with other supporting utilities;
c)	
ensure equipment supporting the utilities is inspected and tested regularly to ensure their proper 
functioning;
d)	 if necessary, raise alarms to detect utilities malfunctions;
e)	 if necessary, ensure utilities have multiple feeds with diverse physical routing;
f)	
ensure equipment supporting the utilities is on a separate network from the information processing 
facilities if connected to a network;
g)	 ensure equipment supporting the utilities is connected to the internet only when needed and only 
in a secure manner.
Emergency lighting and communications should be provided. Emergency switches and valves to cut 
off power, water, gas or other utilities should be located near emergency exits or equipment rooms. 
Emergency contact details should be recorded and available to personnel in the event of an outage.
Other information
Additional redundancy for network connectivity can be obtained by means of multiple routes from 
more than one utility provider.
7.12	Cabling security
Control type
Information
security properties
Cybersecurity
concepts
Operational
capabilities
Security domains
#Preventive
#Confidentiality
#Availability
#Protect
#Physical_security
#Protection
Control
Cables carrying power, data or supporting information services should be protected from interception, 
interference or damage.
Purpose
To prevent loss, damage, theft or compromise of information and other associated assets and 
interruption to the organization’s operations related to power and communications cabling.
Guidance
The following guidelines for cabling security should be considered:
a)	 power and telecommunications lines into information processing facilities being underground 
where possible, or subject to adequate alternative protection, such as floor cable protector and 
utility pole; if cables are underground, protecting them from accidental cuts (e.g. with armoured 
conduits or signals of presence);
b)	 segregating power cables from communications cables to prevent interference;
	
﻿
© ISO/IEC 2022 – All rights reserved

﻿
78
