ISO/IEC 27002:2022(E)
h)	 applying security measures for assets off-premises (see 7.9) if equipment containing information is 
taken off premises for maintenance;
i)	
complying with all maintenance requirements imposed by insurance;
j)	
before putting equipment back into operation after maintenance, inspecting it to ensure that the 
equipment has not been tampered with and is functioning properly;
k)	 applying measures for secure disposal or re-use of equipment (see 7.14) if it is determined that 
equipment is to be disposed of.
Other information
Equipment includes technical components of information processing facilities, uninterruptible power 
supply (UPS) and batteries, power generators, power alternators and converters, physical intrusion 
detection systems and alarms, smoke detectors, fire extinguishers, air conditioning and lifts.
7.14	Secure disposal or re-use of equipment
Control type
Information
security properties
Cybersecurity
concepts
Operational
capabilities
Security domains
#Preventive
#Confidentiality
#Protect
#Physical_security
#Asset_management
#Protection
Control
Items of equipment containing storage media should be verified to ensure that any sensitive data and 
licensed software has been removed or securely overwritten prior to disposal or re-use.
Purpose
To prevent leakage of information from equipment to be disposed or re-used.
Guidance
Equipment should be verified to ensure whether or not storage media is contained prior to disposal or 
re-use.
Storage media containing confidential or copyrighted information should be physically destroyed or 
the information should be destroyed, deleted or overwritten using techniques to make the original 
information non-retrievable rather than using the standard delete function. See 7.10 for detailed 
guidance on secure disposal of storage media and 8.10 for guidance on information deletion.
Labels and markings identifying the organization or indicating the classification, owner, system or 
network, should be removed prior to disposal, including reselling or donating to charity.
The organization should consider the removal of security controls such as access controls or surveillance 
equipment at the end of lease or when moving out of premises. This depends on factors such as:
a)	 its lease agreement to return the facility to original condition;
b)	 minimizing the risk of leaving systems with sensitive information on them for the next tenant (e.g. 
user access lists, video or image files);
c)	
the ability to reuse the controls at the next facility.
Other information
Damaged equipment containing storage media can require a risk assessment to determine whether 
the items should be physically destroyed rather than sent for repair or discarded. Information can be 
compromised through careless disposal or re-use of equipment.
	
﻿
© ISO/IEC 2022 – All rights reserved

﻿
80
