ISO/IEC 27002:2022(E)
In addition to secure disk deletion, full-disk encryption reduces the risk of disclosure of confidential 
information when equipment is disposed of or redeployed, provided that:
a)	 the encryption process is sufficiently strong and covers the entire disk (including slack space, swap 
files);
b)	 the cryptographic keys are long enough to resist brute force attacks;
c)	
the cryptographic keys are themselves kept confidential (e.g. never stored on the same disk).
For further advice on cryptography, see 8.24.
Techniques for securely overwriting storage media differ according to the storage media technology 
and the classification level of the information on the storage media. Overwriting tools should be 
reviewed to make sure that they are applicable to the technology of the storage media.
See ISO/IEC 27040 for detail on methods for sanitizing storage media.
8	 Technological controls
8.1	 User endpoint devices
Control type
Information
security properties
Cybersecurity
concepts
Operational
capabilities
Security do­
mains
#Preventive
#Confidentiality
#Integrity
#Availability
#Protect
#Asset_management
#Information_protection
#Protection
Control
Information stored on, processed by or accessible via user endpoint devices should be protected.
Purpose
To protect information against the risks introduced by using user endpoint devices.
Guidance
General
The organization should establish a topic-specific policy on secure configuration and handling of user 
endpoint devices. The topic-specific policy should be communicated to all relevant personnel and 
consider the following:
a)	 the type of information and the classification level that the user endpoint devices can handle, 
process, store or support;
b)	 registration of user endpoint devices;
c)	
requirements for physical protection;
d)	 restriction of software installation (e.g. remotely controlled by system administrators);
e)	 requirements for user endpoint device software (including software versions) and for applying 
updates (e.g. active automatic updating);
f)	
rules for connection to information services, public networks or any other network off premises 
(e.g. requiring the use of personal firewall);
g)	 access controls;
h)	 storage device encryption;
© ISO/IEC 2022 – All rights reserved	
﻿
﻿
81
