ISO/IEC 27002:2022(E)
i)	
protection against malware;
j)	
remote disabling, deletion or lockout;
k)	 backups;
l)	
usage of web services and web applications;
m)	 end user behaviour analytics (see 8.16);
n)	 the use of removable devices, including removable memory devices, and the possibility of disabling 
physical ports (e.g. USB ports);
o)	 the use of partitioning capabilities, if supported by the user endpoint device, which can securely 
separate the organization's information and other associated assets (e.g. software) from other 
information and other associated assets on the device.
Consideration should be given as to whether certain information is so sensitive that it can only be 
accessed via user endpoint devices, but not stored on such devices. In such cases, additional technical 
safeguards can be required on the device. For example, ensuring that downloading files for offline 
working is disabled and that local storage such as SD card is disabled.
As far as possible, the recommendations on this control should be enforced through configuration 
management (see 8.9) or automated tools.
User responsibility
All users should be made aware of the security requirements and procedures for protecting user 
endpoint devices, as well as of their responsibilities for implementing such security measures. Users 
should be advised to:
a)	 log-off active sessions and terminate services when no longer needed;
b)	 protect user endpoint devices from unauthorized use with a physical control (e.g. key lock or 
special locks) and logical control (e.g. password access) when not in use; not leave devices carrying 
important, sensitive or critical business information unattended;
c)	
use devices with special care in public places, open offices, meeting places and other unprotected 
areas (e.g. avoid reading confidential information if people can read from the back, use privacy 
screen filters);
d)	 physically protect user endpoint devices against theft (e.g. in cars and other forms of transport, 
hotel rooms, conference centres and meeting places).
A specific procedure taking into account legal, statutory, regulatory, contractual (including insurance) 
and other security requirements of the organization should be established for cases of theft or loss of 
user endpoint devices.
Use of personal devices
Where the organization allows the use of personal devices (sometimes known as BYOD), in addition to 
the guidance given in this control, the following should be considered:
a)	 separation of personal and business use of the devices, including using software to support such 
separation and protect business data on a private device;
b)	 providing access to business information only after users have acknowledged their duties (physical 
protection, software updating, etc.), waiving ownership of business data, allowing remote wiping 
of data by the organization in case of theft or loss of the device or when no longer authorized to use 
the service. In such cases, PII protection legislation should be considered;
c)	
topic-specific policies and procedures to prevent disputes concerning rights to intellectual property 
developed on privately owned equipment;
	
﻿
© ISO/IEC 2022 – All rights reserved

﻿
82
