ISO/IEC 27002:2022(E)
d)	 access to privately owned equipment (to verify the security of the machine or during an 
investigation), which can be prevented by legislation;
e)	 software licensing agreements that are such that organizations can become liable for licensing for 
client software on user endpoint devices owned privately by personnel or external party users.
Wireless connections
The organization should establish procedures for:
a)	 the configuration of wireless connections on devices (e.g. disabling vulnerable protocols);
b)	 using wireless or wired connections with appropriate bandwidth in accordance with relevant 
topic-specific policies (e.g. because backups or software updates are needed).
Other information
Controls to protect information on user endpoint devices depend on whether the user endpoint device 
is used only inside of the organization's secured premises and network connections, or whether it is 
exposed to increased physical and network related threats outside of the organization.
The wireless connections for user endpoint devices are similar to other types of network connections 
but have important differences that should be considered when identifying controls. In particular, 
back-up of information stored on user endpoint devices can sometimes fail because of limited network 
bandwidth or because user endpoint devices are not connected at the times when backups are 
scheduled.
For some USB ports, such as USB-C, disabling the USB port is not possible because it is used for other 
purposes (e.g. power delivery and display output).
8.2	 Privileged access rights
Control type
Information
security properties
Cybersecurity
concepts
Operational capa­
bilities
Security domains
#Preventive
#Confidentiality
#Integrity
#Availability
#Protect
#Identity_and_ac­
cess_management
#Protection
Control
The allocation and use of privileged access rights should be restricted and managed.
Purpose
To ensure only authorized users, software components and services are provided with privileged 
access rights.
Guidance
The allocation of privileged access rights should be controlled through an authorization process in 
accordance with the relevant topic-specific policy on access control (see 5.15). The following should be 
considered:
a)	 identifying users who need privileged access rights for each system or process (e.g. operating 
systems, database management systems and applications);
b)	 allocating privileged access rights to users as needed and on an event-by-event basis in line with 
the topic-specific policy on access control (see 5.15) (i.e. only to individuals with the necessary 
competence to carry out activities that require privileged access and based on the minimum 
requirement for their functional roles);
© ISO/IEC 2022 – All rights reserved	
﻿
﻿
83
