ISO/IEC 27002:2022(E)
c)	
maintaining an authorization process (i.e. determining who can approve privileged access rights, 
or not granting privileged access rights until the authorization process is complete) and a record of 
all privileges allocated;
d)	 defining and implementing requirements for expiry of privileged access rights;
e)	 taking measures to ensure that users are aware of their privileged access rights and when they are 
in privileged access mode. Possible measures include using specific user identities, user interface 
settings or even specific equipment;
f)	
authentication requirements for privileged access rights can be higher than the requirements for 
normal access rights. Re-authentication or authentication step-up can be necessary before doing 
work with privileged access rights;
g)	 regularly, and after any organizational change, reviewing users working with privileged access 
rights in order to verify if their duties, roles, responsibilities and competence still qualify them for 
working with privileged access rights (see 5.18);
h)	 establishing specific rules in order to avoid the use of generic administration user IDs (such as 
“root”), depending on systems’ configuration capabilities. Managing and protecting authentication 
information of such identities (see 5.17);
i)	
granting temporary privileged access just for the time window necessary to implement approved 
changes or activities (e.g. for maintenance activities or some critical changes), rather than 
permanently granting privileged access rights. This is often referred as break glass procedure, and 
often automated by privilege access management technologies;
j)	
logging all privileged access to systems for audit purposes;
k)	 not sharing or linking identities with privileged access rights to multiple persons, assigning each 
person a separate identity which allows assigning specific privileged access rights. Identities 
can be grouped (e.g. by defining an administrator group) in order to simplify the management of 
privileged access rights;
l)	
only using identities with privileged access rights for undertaking administrative tasks and not 
for day-to-day general tasks [i.e. checking email, accessing the web (users should have a separate 
normal network identity for these activities)].
Other information
Privileged access rights are access rights provided to an identity, a role or a process that allows the 
performance of activities that typical users or processes cannot perform. System administrator roles 
typically require privileged access rights.
Inappropriate use of system administrator privileges (any feature or facility of an information system 
that enables the user to override system or application controls) is a major contributory factor to 
failures or breaches of systems.
More information related to access management and the secure management of access to information 
and information and communications technologies resources can be found in ISO/IEC 29146.
8.3	 Information access restriction
Control type
Information
security properties
Cybersecurity
concepts
Operational
capabilities
Security domains
#Preventive
#Confidentiality
#Integrity
#Availability
#Protect
#Identity_and_ac­
cess_management
#Protection
	
﻿
© ISO/IEC 2022 – All rights reserved

﻿
84
