ISO/IEC 27002:2022(E)
Dynamic access management systems should protect information by:
a)	 requiring authentication, appropriate credentials or a certificate to access information;
b)	 restricting access, for example to a specified time frame (e.g. after a given date or until a particular 
date);
c)	
using encryption to protect information;
d)	 defining the printing permissions for the information;
e)	 recording who accesses the information and how the information is used;
f)	
raising alerts if attempts to misuse the information are detected.
Other information
Dynamic access management techniques and other dynamic information protection technologies can 
support the protection of information even when data is shared beyond the originating organization, 
where traditional access controls cannot be enforced. It can be applied to documents, emails or other 
files containing information to limit who can access the content and in what way. It can be at a granular 
level and be adapted over the life cycle of the information.
Dynamic access management techniques do not replace classical access management [e.g. using access 
control lists (ACLs)], but can add more factors for conditionality, real-time evaluation, just-in-time data 
reduction and other enhancements that can be useful for the most sensitive information. It offers a 
way to control access outside the organization’s environment. Incident response can be supported by 
dynamic access management techniques as permissions can be modified or revoked at any time.
Additional information on a framework for access management is provided in ISO/IEC 29146.
8.4	 Access to source code
Control type
Information
security properties
Cybersecurity
concepts
Operational
capabilities
Security domains
#Preventive
#Confidentiality
#Integrity
#Availability
#Protect
#Identity_and_access_
management
#Application_security
#Secure_configura­
tion
#Protection
Control
Read and write access to source code, development tools and software libraries should be appropriately 
managed.
Purpose
To prevent the introduction of unauthorized functionality, avoid unintentional or malicious changes 
and to maintain the confidentiality of valuable intellectual property.
Guidance
Access to source code and associated items (such as designs, specifications, verification plans and 
validation plans) and development tools (e.g. compilers, builders, integration tools, test platforms and 
environments) should be strictly controlled.
For source code, this can be achieved by controlling central storage of such code, preferably in source 
code management system.
Read access and write access to source code can differ based on the personnel’s role. For example, read 
access to source code can be broadly provided inside the organization, but write access to source code 
	
﻿
© ISO/IEC 2022 – All rights reserved

﻿
86
