ISO/IEC 27002:2022(E)
is only made available to privileged personnel or designated owners. Where code components are used 
by several developers within an organization, read access to a centralized code repository should be 
implemented. Furthermore, if open-source code or third-party code components are used inside an 
organization, read access to such external code repositories can be broadly provided. However, write 
access should still be restricted.
The following guidelines should be considered to control access to program source libraries in order to 
reduce the potential for corruption of computer programs:
a)	 managing the access to program source code and the program source libraries according to 
established procedures;
b)	 granting read and write access to source code based on business needs and managed to address 
risks of alteration or misuse and according to established procedures;
c)	
updating of source code and associated items and granting of access to source code in accordance 
with change control procedures (see 8.32) and only performing it after appropriate authorization 
has been received;
d)	 not granting developers direct access to the source code repository, but through developer tools 
that control activities and authorizations on the source code;
e)	 holding program listings in a secure environment, where read and write access should be 
appropriately managed and assigned;
f)	
maintaining an audit log of all accesses and of all changes to source code.
If the program source code is intended to be published, additional controls to provide assurance on its 
integrity (e.g. digital signature) should be considered.
Other information
If access to source code is not properly controlled, source code can be modified or some data in the 
development environment (e.g. copies of production data, configuration details) can be retrieved by 
unauthorized persons.
8.5	 Secure authentication
Control type
Information
security properties
Cybersecurity
concepts
Operational
capabilities
Security domains
#Preventive
#Confidentiality
#Integrity
#Availability
#Protect
#Identity_and_ac­
cess_management
#Protection
Control
Secure authentication technologies and procedures should be implemented based on information 
access restrictions and the topic-specific policy on access control.
Purpose
To ensure a user or an entity is securely authenticated, when access to systems, applications and 
services is granted.
Guidance
A suitable authentication technique should be chosen to substantiate the claimed identity of a user, 
software, messages and other entities.
The strength of authentication should be appropriate for the classification of the information to be 
accessed. Where strong authentication and identity verification is required, authentication methods 
© ISO/IEC 2022 – All rights reserved	
﻿
﻿
87
