ISO/IEC 27002:2022(E)
alternative to passwords, such as digital certificates, smart cards, tokens or biometric means, should be 
used.
Authentication information should be accompanied by additional authentication factors for accessing 
critical information systems (also known as multi-factor authentication). Using a combination of 
multiple authentication factors, such as what you know, what you have and what you are, reduces 
the possibilities for unauthorized accesses. Multi-factor authentication can be combined with other 
techniques to require additional factors under specific circumstances, based on predefined rules and 
patterns, such as access from an unusual location, from an unusual device or at an unusual time.
Biometric authentication information should be invalidated if it is ever compromised. Biometric 
authentication can be unavailable depending on the conditions of use (e.g. moisture or aging). To 
prepare for these issues, biometric authentication should be accompanied with at least one alternative 
authentication technique.
The procedure for logging into a system or application should be designed to minimize the risk of 
unauthorized access. Log-on procedures and technologies should be implemented considering the 
following:
a)	 not displaying sensitive system or application information until the log-on process has been 
successfully completed in order to avoid providing an unauthorized user with any unnecessary 
assistance;
b)	 displaying a general notice warning that the system or the application or the service should only be 
accessed by authorized users;
c)	
not providing help messages during the log-on procedure that would aid an unauthorized user (e.g. 
if an error condition arises, the system should not indicate which part of the data is correct or 
incorrect);
d)	 validating the log-on information only on completion of all input data;
e)	 protecting against brute force log-on attempts on usernames and passwords [e.g. using completely 
automated public Turing test to tell computers and humans apart (CAPTCHA), requiring password 
reset after a predefined number of failed attempts or blocking the user after a maximum number of 
errors];
f)	
logging unsuccessful and successful attempts;
g)	 raising a security event if a potential attempted or successful breach of log-on controls is detected 
(e.g. sending an alert to the user and the organization’s system administrators when a certain 
number of wrong password attempts has been reached);
h)	 displaying or sending the following information on a separate channel on completion of a successful 
log-on:
1)	 date and time of the previous successful log-on;
2)	 details of any unsuccessful log-on attempts since the last successful log-on;
i)	
not displaying a password in clear text when it is being entered; in some cases, it can be required 
to de-activate this functionality in order to facilitate user log-on (e.g. for accessibility reasons or to 
avoid blocking users because of repeated errors);
j)	
not transmitting passwords in clear text over a network to avoid being captured by a network 
"sniffer” program;
k)	 terminating inactive sessions after a defined period of inactivity, especially in high risk locations 
such as public or external areas outside the organization’s security management or on user 
endpoint devices;
	
﻿
© ISO/IEC 2022 – All rights reserved

﻿
88
