ISO/IEC 27002:2022(E)
l)	
restricting connection duration times to provide additional security for high-risk applications and 
reduce the window of opportunity for unauthorized access.
Other information
Additional information on entity authentication assurance can be found is ISO/IEC 29115.
8.6	 Capacity management
Control type
Information
security properties
Cybersecurity
concepts
Operational
capabilities
Security domains
#Preventive
#Detective
#Integrity
#Availability
#Identify #Protect
#Detect
#Continuity
#Governance_and_
Ecosystem #Protec­
tion
Control
The use of resources should be monitored and adjusted in line with current and expected capacity 
requirements.
Purpose
To ensure the required capacity of information processing facilities, human resources, offices and other 
facilities.
Guidance
Capacity requirements for information processing facilities, human resources, offices and other 
facilities should be identified, taking into account the business criticality of the concerned systems and 
processes.
System tuning and monitoring should be applied to ensure and, where necessary, improve the 
availability and efficiency of systems.
The organization should perform stress-tests of systems and services to confirm that sufficient system 
capacity is available to meet peak performance requirements.
Detective controls should be put in place to indicate problems in due time.
Projections of future capacity requirements should take account of new business and system 
requirements and current and projected trends in the organization’s information processing 
capabilities.
Particular attention should be paid to any resources with long procurement lead times or high costs. 
Therefore, managers, service or product owners should monitor the utilization of key system resources.
Managers should use capacity information to identify and avoid potential resource limitations and 
dependency on key personnel which can present a threat to system security or services and plan 
appropriate action.
Providing sufficient capacity can be achieved by increasing capacity or by reducing demand. The 
following should be considered to increase capacity:
a)	 hiring new personnel;
b)	 obtaining new facilities or space;
c)	
acquiring more powerful processing systems, memory and storage;
d)	 making use of cloud computing, which has inherent characteristics that directly address issues of 
capacity. Cloud computing has elasticity and scalability which enable on-demand rapid expansion 
and reduction in resources available to particular applications and services.
© ISO/IEC 2022 – All rights reserved	
﻿
﻿
89
