ISO/IEC 27002:2022(E)
The following should be considered to reduce demand on the organization’s resources:
a)	 deletion of obsolete data (disk space);
b)	 disposal of hardcopy records that have met their retention period (free up shelving space);
c)	
decommissioning of applications, systems, databases or environments;
d)	 optimizing batch processes and schedules;
e)	 optimizing application code or database queries;
f)	
denying or restricting bandwidth for resource-consuming services if these are not critical (e.g. 
video streaming).
A documented capacity management plan should be considered for mission critical systems.
Other information
For more detail on the elasticity and scalability of cloud computing, see ISO/IEC TS 23167.
8.7	 Protection against malware
Control type
Information
security properties
Cybersecurity
concepts
Operational
capabilities
Security domains
#Preventive
#Detective
#Corrective
#Confidentiality
#Integrity
#Availability
#Protect #Detect
#System_and_network_
security
#Information_protec­
tion
#Protection
#Defence
Control
Protection against malware should be implemented and supported by appropriate user awareness.
Purpose
To ensure information and other associated assets are protected against malware.
Guidance
Protection against malware should be based on malware detection and repair software, information 
security awareness, appropriate system access and change management controls. Use of malware 
detection and repair software alone is not usually adequate. The following guidance should be 
considered:
a)	 implementing rules and controls that prevent or detect the use of unauthorized software [e.g. 
application allowlisting (i.e. using a list providing allowed applications)] (see 8.19 and 8.32);
b)	 implementing controls that prevent or detect the use of known or suspected malicious websites 
(e.g. blocklisting);
c)	
reducing vulnerabilities that can be exploited by malware [e.g. through technical vulnerability 
management (see 8.8 and 8.19)];
d)	 conducting regular automated validation of the software and data content of systems, especially 
for systems supporting critical business processes; investigating the presence of any unapproved 
files or unauthorized amendments;
e)	 establishing protective measures against risks associated with obtaining files and software either 
from or via external networks or on any other medium;
	
﻿
© ISO/IEC 2022 – All rights reserved

﻿
90
