ISO/IEC 27002:2022(E)
f)	
installing and regularly updating malware detection and repair software to scan computers and 
electronic storage media. Carrying out regular scans that include:
1)	 scanning any data received over networks or via any form of electronic storage media, for 
malware before use;
2)	 scanning email and instant messaging attachments and downloads for malware before use. 
Carrying out this scan at different places (e.g. at email servers, desktop computers) and when 
entering the network of the organization;
3)	 scanning webpages for malware when accessed;
g)	 determining the placement and configuration of malware detection and repair tools based on risk 
assessment outcomes and considering:
1)	 defence in depth principles where they would be most effective. For example, this can lead to 
malware detection in a network gateway (in various application protocols such as email, file 
transfer and web) as well as user endpoint devices and servers;
2)	 the evasive techniques of attackers (e.g. the use of encrypted files) to deliver malware or the 
use of encryption protocols to transmit malware;
h)	 taking care to protect against the introduction of malware during maintenance and emergency 
procedures, which can bypass normal controls against malware;
i)	
implementing a process to authorize temporarily or permanently disable some or all measures 
against malware, including exception approval authorities, documented justification and review 
date. This can be necessary when the protection against malware causes disruption to normal 
operations;
j)	
preparing appropriate business continuity plans for recovering from malware attacks, including 
all necessary data and software backup (including both online and offline backup) and recovery 
measures (see 8.13);
k)	 isolating environments where catastrophic consequences can occur;
l)	
defining procedures and responsibilities to deal with protection against malware on systems, 
including training in their use, reporting and recovering from malware attacks;
m)	 providing awareness or training (see 6.3) to all users on how to identify and potentially mitigate 
the receipt, sending or installation of malware infected emails, files or programs [the information 
collected in n) and o) can be used to ensure awareness and training are kept up-to-date];
n)	 implementing procedures to regularly collect information about new malware, such as subscribing 
to mailing lists or reviewing relevant websites;
o)	 verifying that information relating to malware, such as warning bulletins, comes from qualified 
and reputable sources (e.g. reliable internet sites or suppliers of malware detection software) and 
is accurate and informative.
Other information
It is not always possible to install software that protects against malware on some systems (e.g. some 
industrial control systems). Some forms of malware infect computer operating systems and computer 
firmware such that common malware controls cannot clean the system and a full reimaging of the 
operating system software and sometimes the computer firmware is necessary to return to a secure 
state.
© ISO/IEC 2022 – All rights reserved	
﻿
﻿
91
