ISO/IEC 27002:2022(E)
8.8	 Management of technical vulnerabilities
Control type
Information
security properties
Cybersecurity
concepts
Operational
capabilities
Security domains
#Preventive
#Confidentiality
#Integrity
#Availability
#Identify
#Protect
#Threat_and_
vulnerability_
management
#Governance_and_Ecosys­
tem
#Protection #Defence
Control
Information about technical vulnerabilities of information systems in use should be obtained, the 
organization’s exposure to such vulnerabilities should be evaluated and appropriate measures should 
be taken.
Purpose
To prevent exploitation of technical vulnerabilities.
Guidance
Identifying technical vulnerabilities
The organization should have an accurate inventory of assets (see 5.9 to 5.14) as a prerequisite for 
effective technical vulnerability management; the inventory should include the software vendor, 
software name, version numbers, current state of deployment (e.g. what software is installed on what 
systems) and the person(s) within the organization responsible for the software.
To identify technical vulnerabilities, the organization should consider:
a)	 defining and establishing the roles and responsibilities associated with technical vulnerability 
management, including vulnerability monitoring, vulnerability risk assessment, updating, asset 
tracking and any coordination responsibilities required;
b)	 for software and other technologies (based on the asset inventory list, see 5.9), identifying 
information resources that will be used for identifying relevant technical vulnerabilities and 
maintaining awareness about them. Updating the list of information resources based on changes in 
the inventory or when other new or useful resources are found;
c)	
requiring suppliers of information system (including their components) to ensure vulnerability 
reporting, handling and disclosure, including the requirements in applicable contracts (see 5.20);
d)	 using vulnerability scanning tools suitable for the technologies in use to identify vulnerabilities 
and to verify whether the patching of vulnerabilities was successful;
e)	 conducting planned, documented and repeatable penetration tests or vulnerability assessments 
by competent and authorized persons to support the identification of vulnerabilities. Exercising 
caution as such activities can lead to a compromise of the security of the system;
f)	
tracking the usage of third-party libraries and source code for vulnerabilities. This should be 
included in secure coding (see 8.28).
The organization should develop procedures and capabilities to:
a)	 detect the existence of vulnerabilities in its products and services including any external component 
used in these;
b)	 receive vulnerability reports from internal or external sources.
The organization should provide a public point of contact as part of a topic-specific policy on vulnerability 
disclosure so that researchers and others are able to report issues. The organization should establish 
vulnerability reporting procedures, online reporting forms and making use of appropriate threat 
intelligence or information sharing forums. The organization should also consider bug bounty programs 
	
﻿
© ISO/IEC 2022 – All rights reserved

﻿
92
