ISO/IEC 27002:2022(E)
where rewards are offered as an incentive to assist organizations in identifying vulnerabilities in order 
to appropriately remediate them. The organization should also share information with competent 
industry bodies or other interested parties.
Evaluating technical vulnerabilities
To evaluate identified technical vulnerabilities, the following guidance should be considered:
a)	 analyse and verify reports to determine what response and remediation activity is needed;
b)	 once a potential technical vulnerability has been identified, identifying the associated risks and 
the actions to be taken. Such actions can involve updating vulnerable systems or applying other 
controls.
Taking appropriate measures to address technical vulnerabilities
A software update management process should be implemented to ensure the most up-to-date approved 
patches and application updates are installed for all authorized software. If changes are necessary, the 
original software should be retained and the changes applied to a designated copy. All changes should 
be fully tested and documented, so that they can be reapplied, if necessary, to future software upgrades. 
If required, the modifications should be tested and validated by an independent evaluation body.
The following guidance should be considered to address technical vulnerabilities:
a)	 taking appropriate and timely action in response to the identification of potential technical 
vulnerabilities; defining a timeline to react to notifications of potentially relevant technical 
vulnerabilities;
b)	 depending on how urgently a technical vulnerability needs to be addressed, carrying out the action 
according to the controls related to change management (see 8.32) or by following information 
security incident response procedures (see 5.26);
c)	
only using updates from legitimate sources (which can be internal or external to the organization);
d)	 testing and evaluating updates before they are installed to ensure they are effective and do not 
result in side effects that cannot be tolerated [i.e. if an update is available, assessing the risks 
associated with installing the update (the risks posed by the vulnerability should be compared 
with the risk of installing the update)];
e)	 addressing systems at high risk first;
f)	
develop remediation (typically software updates or patches);
g)	 test to confirm if the remediation or mitigation is effective;
h)	 provide mechanisms to verify the authenticity of remediation;
i)	
if no update is available or the update cannot be installed, considering other controls, such as:
1)	 applying any workaround suggested by the software vendor or other relevant sources;
2)	 turning off services or capabilities related to the vulnerability;
3)	 adapting or adding access controls (e.g. firewalls) at network borders (see 8.20 to 8.22);
4)	 shielding vulnerable systems, devices or applications from attack through deployment of 
suitable traffic filters (sometimes called virtual patching);
5)	 increasing monitoring to detect actual attacks;
6)	 raising awareness of the vulnerability.
© ISO/IEC 2022 – All rights reserved	
﻿
﻿
93
