ISO/IEC 27002:2022(E)
For acquired software, if the vendors regularly release information about security updates for their 
software and provide a facility to install such updates automatically, the organization should decide 
whether to use the automatic update or not.
Other considerations
An audit log should be kept for all steps undertaken in technical vulnerability management.
The technical vulnerability management process should be regularly monitored and evaluated in order 
to ensure its effectiveness and efficiency.
An effective technical vulnerability management process should be aligned with incident management 
activities, to communicate data on vulnerabilities to the incident response function and provide 
technical procedures to be carried out in case an incident occurs.
Where the organization uses a cloud service supplied by a third-party cloud service provider, technical 
vulnerability management of cloud service provider resources should be ensured by the cloud service 
provider. The cloud service provider’s responsibilities for technical vulnerability management should 
be part of the cloud service agreement and this should include processes for reporting the cloud service 
provider's actions relating to technical vulnerabilities (see 5.23). For some cloud services, there are 
respective responsibilities for the cloud service provider and the cloud service customer. For example, 
the cloud service customer is responsible for vulnerability management of its own assets used for the 
cloud services.
Other information
Technical vulnerability management can be viewed as a sub-function of change management and as 
such can take advantage of the change management processes and procedures (see 8.32).
There is a possibility that an update does not address the problem adequately and has negative side 
effects. Also, in some cases, uninstalling an update cannot be easily achieved once the update has been 
applied.
If adequate testing of the updates is not possible (e.g. because of costs or lack of resources) a delay in 
updating can be considered to evaluate the associated risks, based on the experience reported by other 
users. The use of ISO/IEC 27031 can be beneficial.
Where software patches or updates are produced, the organization can consider providing an 
automated update process where these updates are installed on affected systems or products without 
the need for intervention by the customer or the user. If an automated update process is offered, it can 
allow the customer or user to choose an option to turn off the automatic update or control the timing of 
the installation of the update.
Where the vendor provides an automated update process and the updates can be installed on affected 
systems or products without the need for intervention, the organization determines if it applies the 
automated process or not. One reason for not electing for automated update is to retain control over 
when the update is performed. For example, a software used for a business operation cannot be updated 
until the operation has completed.
A weakness with vulnerability scanning is that it is possible it does not fully account for defence in depth: 
two countermeasures that are always invoked in sequence can have vulnerabilities that are masked 
by strengths in the other. The composite countermeasure is not vulnerable, whereas a vulnerability 
scanner can report that both components are vulnerable. The organization should therefore take care 
in reviewing and acting on vulnerability reports.
Many organizations supply software, systems, products and services not only within the organization 
but also to interested parties such as customers, partners or other users. These software, systems, 
products and services can have information security vulnerabilities that affect the security of users.
	
﻿
© ISO/IEC 2022 – All rights reserved

﻿
94
