ISO/IEC 27002:2022(E)
Organizations can release remediation and disclose information about vulnerabilities to users (typically 
through a public advisory) and provide appropriate information for software vulnerability database 
services.
For more information relating to the management of technical vulnerabilities when using cloud 
computing, see the ISO/IEC 19086 series and ISO/IEC 27017.
ISO/IEC  29147 provides detailed information on receiving vulnerability reports and publishing 
vulnerability advisories. ISO/IEC 30111 provides detailed information about handling and resolving 
reported vulnerabilities.
8.9 Configuration management
Control type
Information
security properties
Cybersecurity
concepts
Operational
capabilities
Security domains
#Preventive
#Confidentiality
#Integrity
#Availability
#Protect
#Secure_configuration #Protection
Control
Configurations, including security configurations, of hardware, software, services and networks should 
be established, documented, implemented, monitored and reviewed.
Purpose
To ensure hardware, software, services and networks function correctly with required security 
settings, and configuration is not altered by unauthorized or incorrect changes.
Guidance
General
The organization should define and implement processes and tools to enforce the defined configurations 
(including security configurations) for hardware, software, services (e.g. cloud services) and networks, 
for newly installed systems as well as for operational systems over their lifetime.
Roles, responsibilities and procedures should be in place to ensure satisfactory control of all 
configuration changes.
Standard templates
Standard templates for the secure configuration of hardware, software, services and networks should 
be defined:
a)	 using publicly available guidance (e.g. pre-defined templates from vendors and from independent 
security organizations);
b)	 considering the level of protection needed in order to determine a sufficient level of security;
c)	
supporting the organization’s information security policy, topic-specific policies, standards and 
other security requirements;
d)	 considering the feasibility and applicability of security configurations in the organization’s context.
The templates should be reviewed periodically and updated when new threats or vulnerabilities need 
to be addressed, or when new software or hardware versions are introduced.
The following should be considered for establishing standard templates for the secure configuration of 
hardware, software, services and networks:
a)	 minimizing the number of identities with privileged or administrator level access rights;
© ISO/IEC 2022 – All rights reserved	
﻿
﻿
95
