ISO/IEC 27002:2022(E)
b)	 disabling unnecessary, unused or insecure identities;
c)	
disabling or restricting unnecessary functions and services;
d)	 restricting access to powerful utility programs and host parameter settings;
e)	 synchronizing clocks;
f)	
changing vendor default authentication information such as default passwords immediately after 
installation and reviewing other important default security-related parameters;
g)	 invoking time-out facilities that automatically log off computing devices after a predetermined 
period of inactivity;
h)	 verifying that licence requirements have been met (see 5.32).
Managing configurations
Established configurations of hardware, software, services and networks should be recorded and a log 
should be maintained of all configuration changes. These records should be securely stored. This can 
be achieved in various ways, such as configuration databases or configuration templates.
Changes to configurations should follow the change management process (see 8.32).
Configuration records can contain as relevant:
a)	 up-to-date owner or point of contact information for the asset;
b)	 date of the last change of configuration;
c)	
version of configuration template;
d)	 relation to configurations of other assets.
Monitoring configurations
Configurations should be monitored with a comprehensive set of system management tools (e.g. 
maintenance utilities, remote support, enterprise management tools, backup and restore software) and 
should be reviewed on a regular basis to verify configuration settings, evaluate password strengths 
and assess activities performed. Actual configurations can be compared with the defined target 
templates. Any deviations should be addressed, either by automatic enforcement of the defined target 
configuration or by manual analysis of the deviation followed by corrective actions.
Other information
Documentation for systems often records details about the configuration of both hardware and 
software.
System hardening is a typical part of configuration management.
Configuration management can be integrated with asset management processes and associated tooling.
Automation is usually more effective to manage security configuration (e.g. using infrastructure as 
code).
Configuration templates and targets can be confidential information and should be protected from 
unauthorized access accordingly.
	
﻿
© ISO/IEC 2022 – All rights reserved

﻿
96
