ISO/IEC 27002:2022(E)
8.10	Information deletion
Control type
Information
security properties
Cybersecurity
concepts
Operational
capabilities
Security domains
#Preventive
#Confidentiality
#Protect
#Information_pro­
tection
#Legal_and_compli­
ance
#Protection
Control
Information stored in information systems, devices or in any other storage media should be deleted 
when no longer required.
Purpose
To prevent unnecessary exposure of sensitive information and to comply with legal, statutory, 
regulatory and contractual requirements for information deletion.
Guidance
General
Sensitive information should not be kept for longer than it is required to reduce the risk of undesirable 
disclosure.
When deleting information on systems, applications and services, the following should be considered:
a)	 selecting a deletion method (e.g. electronic overwriting or cryptographic erasure) in accordance 
with business requirements and taking into consideration relevant laws and regulations;
b)	 recording the results of deletion as evidence;
c)	
when using service suppliers of information deletion, obtaining evidence of information deletion 
from them.
Where third parties store the organization’s information on its behalf, the organization should consider 
the inclusion of requirements on information deletion into the third-party agreements to enforce it 
during and upon termination of such services.
Deletion methods
In accordance with the organization’s topic-specific policy on data retention and taking into 
consideration relevant legislation and regulations, sensitive information should be deleted when no 
longer required, by:
a)	 configuring systems to securely destroy information when no longer required (e.g. after a defined 
period subject to the topic-specific policy on data retention or by subject access request);
b)	 deleting obsolete versions, copies and temporary files wherever they are located;
c)	
using approved, secure deletion software to permanently delete information to help ensure 
information cannot be recovered by using specialist recovery or forensic tools;
d)	 using approved, certified providers of secure disposal services;
e)	 using disposal mechanisms appropriate for the type of storage media being disposed of (e.g. 
degaussing hard disk drives and other magnetic storage media).
Where cloud services are used, the organization should verify if the deletion method provided by the 
cloud service provider is acceptable, and if it is the case, the organization should use it, or request that 
the cloud service provider delete the information. These deletion processes should be automated in 
© ISO/IEC 2022 – All rights reserved	
﻿
﻿
97
