ISO/IEC 27002:2022(E)
accordance with topic-specific policies, when available and applicable. Depending on the sensitivity of 
information deleted, logs can track or verify that these deletion processes have happened.
To avoid the unintentional exposure of sensitive information when equipment is being sent back to 
vendors, sensitive information should be protected by removing auxiliary storages (e.g. hard disk 
drives) and memory before equipment leaves the organization’s premises.
Considering that the secure deletion of some devices (e.g. smartphones) can only be achieved through 
destruction or using the functions embedded in these devices (e.g. “restore factory settings”), the 
organization should choose the appropriate method according to the classification of information 
handled by such devices.
Control measures described in 7.14 should be applied to physically destroy the storage device and 
simultaneously delete the information it contains.
An official record of information deletion is useful when analysing the cause of a possible information 
leakage event.
Other information
Information on user data deletion in cloud services can be found in ISO/IEC 27017.
Information on deletion of PII can be found in ISO/IEC 27555.
8.11	Data masking
Control type
Information
security properties
Cybersecurity
concepts
Operational
capabilities
Security domains
#Preventive
#Confidentiality
#Protect
#Information_protection #Protection
Control
Data masking should be used in accordance with the organization’s topic-specific policy on access 
control and other related topic-specific policies, and business requirements, taking applicable 
legislation into consideration.
Purpose
To limit the exposure of sensitive data including PII, and to comply with legal, statutory, regulatory and 
contractual requirements.
Guidance
Where the protection of sensitive data (e.g. PII) is a concern, the organization should consider hiding 
such data by using techniques such as data masking, pseudonymization or anonymization.
Pseudonymization or anonymization techniques can hide PII, disguise the true identity of PII principals 
or other sensitive information, and disconnect the link between PII and the identity of the PII principal 
or the link between other sensitive information.
When using pseudonymization or anonymization techniques, it should be verified that data has been 
adequately pseudonymized or anonymized. Data anonymization should consider all the elements 
of the sensitive information to be effective. As an example, if not considered properly, a person can 
be identified even if the data that can directly identify that person is anonymised, by the presence of 
further data which allows the person to be identified indirectly.
Additional techniques for data masking include:
a)	 encryption (requiring authorized users to have a key);
b)	 nulling or deleting characters (preventing unauthorized users from seeing full messages);
	
﻿
© ISO/IEC 2022 – All rights reserved

﻿
98
