ISO/IEC 27002:2022(E)
c)	
varying numbers and dates;
d)	 substitution (changing one value for another to hide sensitive data);
e)	 replacing values with their hash.
The following should be considered when implementing data masking techniques:
a)	 not granting all users access to all data, therefore designing queries and masks in order to show 
only the minimum required data to the user;
b)	 there are cases where some data should not be visible to the user for some records out of a set of 
data; in this case, designing and implementing a mechanism for obfuscation of data (e.g. if a patient 
does not want hospital staff to be able to see all of their records, even in case of emergency, then the 
hospital staff are presented with partially obfuscated data and data can only be accessed by staff 
with specific roles if it contains useful information for appropriate treatment);
c)	
when data are obfuscated, giving the PII principal the possibility to require that users cannot see if 
the data are obfuscated (obfuscation of the obfuscation; this is used in health facilities, for example 
if the patient does not want personnel to see that sensitive information such as pregnancies or 
results of blood exams has been obfuscated);
d)	 any legal or regulatory requirements (e.g. requiring the masking of payment cards' information 
during processing or storage).
The following should be considered when using data masking, pseudonymization or anonymization:
a)	 level of strength of data masking, pseudonymization or anonymization according to the usage of 
the processed data;
b)	 access controls to the processed data;
c)	
agreements or restrictions on usage of the processed data;
d)	 prohibiting collating the processed data with other information in order to identify the PII principal;
e)	 keeping track of providing and receiving the processed data.
Other information
Anonymization irreversibly alters PII in such a way that the PII principal can no longer be identified 
directly or indirectly.
Pseudonymization replaces the identifying information with an alias. Knowledge of the algorithm 
(sometimes referred to as the “additional information”) used to perform the pseudonymization allows 
for at least some form of identification of the PII principal. Such “additional information” should 
therefore be kept separate and protected.
While pseudonymization is therefore weaker than anonymization, pseudonymized datasets can be 
more useful in statistical research.
Data masking is a set of techniques to conceal, substitute or obfuscate sensitive data items. Data masking 
can be static (when data items are masked in the original database), dynamic (using automation and 
rules to secure data in real-time) or on-the-fly (with data masked in an application’s memory).
Hash functions can be used in order to anonymize PII. In order to prevent enumeration attacks, they 
should always be combined with a salt function.
PII in resource identifiers and their attributes [e.g. file names, uniform resource locators (URLs)] should 
be either avoided or appropriately anonymized.
Additional controls concerning the protection of PII in public clouds are given in ISO/IEC 27018.
© ISO/IEC 2022 – All rights reserved	
﻿
﻿
99
