ISO/IEC 27002:2022(E)
Additional information on de-identification techniques is available in ISO/IEC 20889.
8.12	Data leakage prevention
Control type
Information
security properties
Cybersecurity
concepts
Operational
capabilities
Security domains
#Preventive
#Detective
#Confidentiality
#Protect #Detect
#Information_pro­
tection
#Protection
#Defence
Control
Data leakage prevention measures should be applied to systems, networks and any other devices that 
process, store or transmit sensitive information.
Purpose
To detect and prevent the unauthorized disclosure and extraction of information by individuals or 
systems.
Guidance
The organization should consider the following to reduce the risk of data leakage:
a)	 identifying and classifying information to protect against leakage (e.g. personal information, 
pricing models and product designs);
b)	 monitoring channels of data leakage (e.g. email, file transfers, mobile devices and portable storage 
devices);
c)	
acting to prevent information from leaking (e.g. quarantine emails containing sensitive 
information).
Data leakage prevention tools should be used to:
a)	 identify and monitor sensitive information at risk of unauthorized disclosure (e.g. in unstructured 
data on a user’s system);
b)	 detect the disclosure of sensitive information (e.g. when information is uploaded to untrusted 
third-party cloud services or sent via email);
c)	
block user actions or network transmissions that expose sensitive information (e.g. preventing the 
copying of database entries into a spreadsheet).
The organization should determine if it is necessary to restrict a user’s ability to copy and paste or 
upload data to services, devices and storage media outside of the organization. If that is the case, the 
organization should implement technology such as data leakage prevention tools or the configuration 
of existing tools that allow users to view and manipulate data held remotely but prevent copy and paste 
outside of the organization’s control.
If data export is required, the data owner should be allowed to approve the export and hold users 
accountable for their actions.
Taking screenshots or photographs of the screen should be addressed through terms and conditions of 
use, training and auditing.
Where data is backed up, care should be taken to ensure sensitive information is protected using 
measures such as encryption, access control and physical protection of the storage media holding the 
backup.
Data leakage prevention should also be considered to protect against the intelligence actions of an 
adversary from obtaining confidential or secret information (geopolitical, human, financial, commercial, 
scientific or any other) which can be of interest for espionage or can be critical for the community. The 
	
﻿
© ISO/IEC 2022 – All rights reserved

﻿
100
