ISO/IEC 27002:2022(E)
data leakage prevention actions should be oriented to confuse the adversary’s decisions for example by 
replacing authentic information with false information, either as an independent action or as response 
to the adversary’s intelligence actions. Examples of these kinds of actions are reverse social engineering 
or the use of honeypots to attract attackers.
Other information
Data leakage prevention tools are designed to identify data, monitor data usage and movement, and 
take actions to prevent data from leaking (e.g. alerting users to their risky behaviour and blocking the 
transfer of data to portable storage devices).
Data leakage prevention inherently involves monitoring personnel’s communications and online 
activities, and by extension external party messages, which raises legal concerns that should be 
considered prior to deploying data leakage prevention tools. There is a variety of legislation relating to 
privacy, data protection, employment, interception of data and telecommunications that is applicable to 
monitoring and data processing in the context of data leakage prevention.
Data leakage prevention can be supported by standard security controls, such as topic-specific policies 
on access control and secure document management (see 5.12 and 5.15).
8.13	Information backup
Control type
Information
security properties
Cybersecurity
concepts
Operational
capabilities
Security domains
#Corrective
#Integrity
#Availability
#Recover
#Continuity
#Protection
Control
Backup copies of information, software and systems should be maintained and regularly tested in 
accordance with the agreed topic-specific policy on backup.
Purpose
To enable recovery from loss of data or systems.
Guidance
A topic-specific policy on backup should be established to address the organization’s data retention and 
information security requirements.
Adequate backup facilities should be provided to ensure that all essential information and software can 
be recovered following an incident or failure or loss of storage media.
Plans should be developed and implemented for how the organization will back up information, 
software and systems, to address the topic-specific policy on backup.
When designing a backup plan, the following items should be taken into consideration:
a)	 producing accurate and complete records of the backup copies and documented restoration 
procedures;
b)	 reflecting the business requirements of the organization (e.g. the recovery point objective, see 
5.30), the security requirements of the information involved and the criticality of the information 
to the continued operation of the organization in the extent (e.g. full or differential backup) and 
frequency of backups;
c)	
storing the backups in a safe and secure remote location, at a sufficient distance to escape any 
damage from a disaster at the main site;
d)	 giving backup information an appropriate level of physical and environmental protection (see 
Clause 7 and 8.1) consistent with the standards applied at the main site;
© ISO/IEC 2022 – All rights reserved	
﻿
﻿
101
