ISO/IEC 27002:2022(E)
e)	 regularly testing backup media to ensure that they can be relied on for emergency use when 
necessary. Testing the ability to restore backed-up data onto a test system, not by overwriting the 
original storage media in case the backup or restoration process fails and causes irreparable data 
damage or loss;
f)	
protecting backups by means of encryption according to the identified risks (e.g. in situations 
where confidentiality is of importance);
g)	 taking care to ensure that inadvertent data loss is detected before backup is taken.
Operational procedures should monitor the execution of backups and address failures of scheduled 
backups to ensure completeness of backups according to the topic-specific policy on backups.
Backup measures for individual systems and services should be regularly tested to ensure that they 
meet the objectives of incident response and business continuity plans (see 5.30). This should be 
combined with a test of the restoration procedures and checked against the restoration time required 
by the business continuity plan. In the case of critical systems and services, backup measures should 
cover all systems information, applications and data necessary to recover the complete system in the 
event of a disaster.
When the organization uses a cloud service, backup copies of the organization’s information, 
applications and systems in the cloud service environment should be taken. The organization should 
determine if and how requirements for backup are fulfilled when using the information backup service 
provided as part of the cloud service.
The retention period for essential business information should be determined, taking into account 
any requirement for retention of archive copies. The organization should consider the deletion of 
information (see 8.10) in storage media used for backup once the information’s retention period expires 
and should take into consideration legislation and regulations.
Other information
For further information on storage security including retention consideration, see ISO/IEC 27040.
8.14	Redundancy of information processing facilities
Control type
Information
security properties
Cybersecurity
concepts
Operational
capabilities
Security domains
#Preventive
#Availability
#Protect
#Continuity
#Asset_management
#Protection
#Resilience
Control
Information processing facilities should be implemented with redundancy sufficient to meet availability 
requirements.
Purpose
To ensure the continuous operation of information processing facilities.
Guidance
The organization should identify requirements for the availability of business services and information 
systems. The organization should design and implement systems architecture with appropriate 
redundancy to meet these requirements.
Redundancy can be introduced by duplicating information processing facilities in part or in their 
entirety (i.e. spare components or having two of everything). The organization should plan and 
implement procedures for the activation of the redundant components and processing facilities. 
The procedures should establish if the redundant components and processing activities are always 
	
﻿
© ISO/IEC 2022 – All rights reserved

﻿
102
