ISO/IEC 27002:2022(E)
activated, or in case of emergency, automatically or manually activated. The redundant components 
and information processing facilities should ensure the same security level as the primary ones.
Mechanisms should be in place to alert the organization to any failure in the information processing 
facilities, enable executing the planned procedure and allow continued availability while the 
information processing facilities are repaired or replaced.
The organization should consider the following when implementing redundant systems:
a)	 contracting with two or more suppliers of network and critical information processing facilities 
such as internet service providers;
b)	 using redundant networks;
c)	
using two geographically separate data centres with mirrored systems;
d)	 using physically redundant power supplies or sources;
e)	 using multiple parallel instances of software components, with automatic load balancing between 
them (between instances in the same data centre or in different data centres);
f)	
having duplicated components in systems (e.g. CPU, hard disks, memories) or in networks (e.g. 
firewalls, routers, switches).
Where applicable, preferably in production mode, redundant information systems should be tested to 
ensure the failover from one component to another component works as intended.
Other information
There is a strong relationship between redundancy and ICT readiness for business continuity (see 5.30) 
especially if short recovery times are required. Many of the redundancy measures can be part of the 
ICT continuity strategies and solutions.
The implementation of redundancies can introduce risks to the integrity (e.g. processes of copying 
data to duplicated components can introduce errors) or confidentiality (e.g. weak security control of 
duplicated components can lead to compromise) of information and information systems, which need 
to be considered when designing information systems.
Redundancy in information processing facilities does not usually address application unavailability due 
to faults within an application.
With the use of public cloud computing, it is possible to have multiple live versions of information 
processing facilities, existing in multiple separate physical locations with automatic failover and load 
balancing between them.
Some of the technologies and techniques for providing redundancy and automatic fail-over in the 
context of cloud services are discussed in ISO/IEC TS 23167.
8.15	Logging
Control type
Information
security properties
Cybersecurity
concepts
Operational
capabilities
Security domains
#Detective
#Confidentiality
#Integrity
#Availability
#Detect
#Information_securi­
ty_event_management
#Protection
#Defence
Control
Logs that record activities, exceptions, faults and other relevant events should be produced, stored, 
protected and analysed.
© ISO/IEC 2022 – All rights reserved	
﻿
﻿
103
