ISO/IEC 27002:2022(E)
Purpose
To record events, generate evidence, ensure the integrity of log information, prevent against 
unauthorized access, identify information security events that can lead to an information security 
incident and to support investigations.
Guidance
General
The organization should determine the purpose for which logs are created, what data is collected and 
logged, and any log-specific requirements for protecting and handling the log data. This should be 
documented in a topic-specific policy on logging.
Event logs should include for each event, as applicable:
a)	 user IDs;
b)	 system activities;
c)	
dates, times and details of relevant events (e.g. log-on and log-off);
d)	 device identity, system identifier and location;
e)	 network addresses and protocols.
The following events should be considered for logging:
a)	 successful and rejected system access attempts;
b)	 successful and rejected data and other resource access attempts;
c)	
changes to system configuration;
d)	 use of privileges;
e)	 use of utility programs and applications;
f)	
files accessed and the type of access, including deletion of important data files;
g)	 alarms raised by the access control system;
h)	 activation and de-activation of security systems, such as anti-virus systems and intrusion detection 
systems;
i)	
creation, modification or deletion of identities;
j)	
transactions executed by users in applications. In some cases, the applications are a service or 
product provided or run by a third party.
It is important for all systems to have synchronized time sources (see 8.17) as this allows for correlation 
of logs between systems for analysis, alerting and investigation of an incident.
Protection of logs
Users, including those with privileged access rights, should not have permission to delete or de-activate 
logs of their own activities. They can potentially manipulate the logs on information processing 
facilities under their direct control. Therefore, it is necessary to protect and review the logs to maintain 
accountability for the privileged users.
Controls should aim to protect against unauthorized changes to log information and operational 
problems with the logging facility including:
a)	 alterations to the message types that are recorded;
	
﻿
© ISO/IEC 2022 – All rights reserved

﻿
104
