ISO/IEC 27002:2022(E)
b)	 log files being edited or deleted;
c)	
failure to record events or over-writing of past recorded events if the storage media holding a log 
file is exceeded.
For protection of logs, the use of the following techniques should be considered: cryptographic hashing, 
recording in an append-only and read-only file, recording in a public transparency file.
Some audit logs can be required to be archived because of requirements on data retention or 
requirements to collect and retain evidence (see 5.28).
Where the organization needs to send system or application logs to a vendor to assist with debugging or 
troubleshooting errors, logs should be de-identified where possible using data masking techniques (see 
8.11) for information such as usernames, internet protocol (IP) addresses, hostnames or organization 
name, before sending to the vendor.
Event logs can contain sensitive data and personally identifiable information. Appropriate privacy 
protection measures should be taken (see 5.34).
Log analysis
Log analysis should cover the analysis and interpretation of information security events, to help identify 
unusual activity or anomalous behaviour, which can represent indicators of compromise.
Analysis of events should be performed by taking into account:
a)	 the necessary skills for the experts performing the analysis;
b)	 determining the procedure of log analysis;
c)	
the required attributes of each security-related event;
d)	 exceptions identified through the use of predetermined rules [e.g. security information and 
event management (SIEM) or firewall rules, and intrusion detection systems (IDSs) or malware 
signatures];
e)	 known behaviour patterns and standard network traffic compared to anomalous activity and 
behaviour [user and entity behaviour analytics (UEBA)];
f)	
results of trend or pattern analysis (e.g. as a result of using data analytics, big data techniques and 
specialized analysis tools);
g)	 available threat intelligence.
Log analysis should be supported by specific monitoring activities to help identify and analyse 
anomalous behaviour, which includes:
a)	 reviewing successful and unsuccessful attempts to access protected resources [e.g. domain name 
system (DNS) servers, web portals and file shares];
b)	 checking DNS logs to identify outbound network connections to malicious servers, such as those 
associated with botnet command and control servers;
c)	
examining usage reports from service providers (e.g. invoices or service reports) for unusual 
activity within systems and networks (e.g. by reviewing patterns of activity);
d)	 including event logs of physical monitoring such as entrance and exit to ensure more accurate 
detection and incident analysis;
e)	 correlating logs to enable efficient and highly accurate analysis.
© ISO/IEC 2022 – All rights reserved	
﻿
﻿
105
