ISO/IEC 27002:2022(E)
Suspected and actual information security incidents should be identified (e.g. malware infection or 
probing of firewalls) and be subject to further investigation (e.g. as part of an information security 
incident management process, see 5.25).
Other information
System logs often contain a large volume of information, much of which is extraneous to information 
security monitoring. To help identify significant events for information security monitoring purposes, 
the use of suitable utility programs or audit tools to perform file interrogation can be considered.
Event logging sets the foundation for automated monitoring systems (see 8.16) which are capable of 
generating consolidated reports and alerts on system security.
A SIEM tool or equivalent service can be used to store, correlate, normalize and analyse log information, 
and to generate alerts. SIEMs tend to require careful configuration to optimize their benefits. 
Configurations to consider include identification and selection of appropriate log sources, tuning and 
testing of rules and development of use cases.
Public transparency files for the recording of logs are used, for example, in certificate transparency 
systems. Such files can provide an additional detection mechanism useful for guarding against log 
tampering.
In cloud environments, log management responsibilities can be shared between the cloud service 
customer and the cloud service provider. Responsibilities vary depending on the type of cloud service 
being used. Further guidance can be found in ISO/IEC 27017.
8.16	Monitoring activities
Control type
Information
security properties
Cybersecurity
concepts
Operational
capabilities
Security domains
#Detective
#Corrective
#Confidentiality
#Integrity #Availability
#Detect #Respond
#Information_securi­
ty_event_management
#Defence
Control
Networks, systems and applications should be monitored for anomalous behaviour and appropriate 
actions taken to evaluate potential information security incidents.
Purpose
To detect anomalous behaviour and potential information security incidents.
Guidance
The monitoring scope and level should be determined in accordance with business and information 
security requirements and taking into consideration relevant laws and regulations. Monitoring records 
should be maintained for defined retention periods.
The following should be considered for inclusion within the monitoring system:
a)	 outbound and inbound network, system and application traffic;
b)	 access to systems, servers, networking equipment, monitoring system, critical applications, etc.;
c)	
critical or admin level system and network configuration files;
d)	 logs from security tools [e.g. antivirus, IDS, intrusion prevention system (IPS), web filters, firewalls, 
data leakage prevention];
e)	 event logs relating to system and network activity;
	
﻿
© ISO/IEC 2022 – All rights reserved

﻿
106
