ISO/IEC 27002:2022(E)
f)	
checking that the code being executed is authorized to run in the system and that it has not been 
tampered with (e.g. by recompilation to add additional unwanted code);
g)	 use of the resources (e.g. CPU, hard disks, memory, bandwidth) and their performance.
The organization should establish a baseline of normal behaviour and monitor against this baseline for 
anomalies. When establishing a baseline, the following should be considered:
a)	 reviewing utilization of systems at normal and peak periods;
b)	 usual time of access, location of access, frequency of access for each user or group of users.
The monitoring system should be configured against the established baseline to identify anomalous 
behaviour, such as:
a)	 unplanned termination of processes or applications;
b)	 activity typically associated with malware or traffic originating from known malicious IP addresses 
or network domains (e.g. those associated with botnet command and control servers);
c)	
known attack characteristics (e.g. denial of service and buffer overflows);
d)	 unusual system behaviour (e.g. keystroke logging, process injection and deviations in use of 
standard protocols);
e)	 bottlenecks and overloads (e.g. network queuing, latency levels and network jitter);
f)	
unauthorized access (actual or attempted) to systems or information;
g)	 unauthorized scanning of business applications, systems and networks;
h)	 successful and unsuccessful attempts to access protected resources (e.g. DNS servers, web portals 
and file systems);
i)	
unusual user and system behaviour in relation to expected behaviour.
Continuous monitoring via a monitoring tool should be used. Monitoring should be done in real time or 
in periodic intervals, subject to organizational need and capabilities. Monitoring tools should include 
the ability to handle large amounts of data, adapt to a constantly changing threat landscape, and allow 
for real-time notification. The tools should also be able to recognize specific signatures and data or 
network or application behaviour patterns.
Automated monitoring software should be configured to generate alerts (e.g. via management consoles, 
email messages or instant messaging systems) based on predefined thresholds. The alerting system 
should be tuned and trained on the organization’s baseline to minimize false positives. Personnel should 
be dedicated to respond to alerts and should be properly trained to accurately interpret potential 
incidents. There should be redundant systems and processes in place to receive and respond to alert 
notifications.
Abnormal events should be communicated to relevant parties in order to improve the following 
activities: auditing, security evaluation, vulnerability scanning and monitoring (see 5.25). Procedures 
should be in place to respond to positive indicators from the monitoring system in a timely manner, in 
order to minimize the effect of adverse events (see 5.26) on information security. Procedures should 
also be established to identify and address false positives including tuning the monitoring software to 
reduce the number of future false positives.
Other information
Security monitoring can be enhanced by:
a)	 leveraging threat intelligence systems (see 5.7);
b)	 leveraging machine learning and artificial intelligence capabilities;
© ISO/IEC 2022 – All rights reserved	
﻿
﻿
107
