ISO/IEC 27002:2022(E)
c)	
using blocklists or allowlists;
d)	 undertaking a range of technical security assessments (e.g. vulnerability assessments, penetration 
testing, cyber-attack simulations and cyber response exercises), and using the results of these 
assessments to help determine baselines or acceptable behaviour;
e)	 using performance monitoring systems to help establish and detect anomalous behaviour;
f)	
leveraging logs in combination with monitoring systems.
Monitoring activities are often conducted using specialist software, such as intrusion detection 
systems. These can be configured to a baseline of normal, acceptable and expected system and network 
activities.
Monitoring for anomalous communications helps in the identification of botnets (i.e. set of devices 
under the malicious control of the botnet owner, usually used for mounting distributed denial of service 
attacks on other computers of other organizations). If the computer is being controlled by an external 
device, there is a communication between the infected device and the controller. The organization 
should therefore employ technologies to monitor for anomalous communications and take such action 
as necessary.
8.17	Clock synchronization
Control type
Information
security properties
Cybersecurity
concepts
Operational
capabilities
Security domains
#Detective
#Integrity
#Protect #Detect
#Information_securi­
ty_event_management
#Protection
#Defence
Control
The clocks of information processing systems used by the organization should be synchronized to 
approved time sources.
Purpose
To enable the correlation and analysis of security-related events and other recorded data, and to 
support investigations into information security incidents.
Guidance
External and internal requirements for time representation, reliable synchronization and accuracy 
should be documented and implemented. Such requirements can be from legal, statutory, regulatory, 
contractual, standards and internal monitoring needs. A standard reference time for use within the 
organization should be defined and considered for all systems, including building management systems, 
entry and exit systems and others that can be used to aid investigations.
A clock linked to a radio time broadcast from a national atomic clock or global positioning system (GPS) 
should be used as the reference clock for logging systems; a consistent, trusted date and time source to 
ensure accurate time-stamps. Protocols such as network time protocol (NTP) or precision time protocol 
(PTP) should be used to keep all networked systems in synchronization with a reference clock.
The organization can use two external time sources at the same time in order to improve the reliability 
of external clocks, and appropriately manage any variance.
Clock synchronization can be difficult when using multiple cloud services or when using both cloud 
and on-premises services. In this case, the clock of each service should be monitored and the difference 
recorded in order to mitigate risks arising from discrepancies.
	
﻿
© ISO/IEC 2022 – All rights reserved

﻿
108
