ISO/IEC 27002:2022(E)
8.19	Installation of software on operational systems
Control type
Information
security properties
Cybersecurity
concepts
Operational
capabilities
Security do­
mains
#Preventive
#Confidentiality
#Integrity
#Availability
#Protect
#Secure_configuration
#Application_security
#Protection
Control
Procedures and measures should be implemented to securely manage software installation on 
operational systems.
Purpose
To ensure the integrity of operational systems and prevent exploitation of technical vulnerabilities.
Guidance
The following guidelines should be considered to securely manage changes and installation of software 
on operational systems:
a)	 performing updates of operational software only by trained administrators upon appropriate 
management authorization (see 8.5);
b)	 ensuring that only approved executable code and no development code or compilers is installed on 
operational systems;
c)	
only installing and updating software after extensive and successful testing (see 8.29 and 8.31);
d)	 updating all corresponding program source libraries;
e)	 using a configuration control system to keep control of all operational software as well as the 
system documentation;
f)	
defining a rollback strategy before changes are implemented;
g)	 maintaining an audit log of all updates to operational software;
h)	 archiving old versions of software, together with all required information and parameters, 
procedures, configuration details and supporting software as a contingency measure, and for as 
long as the software is required to read or process archived data.
Any decision to upgrade to a new release should take into account the business requirements for the 
change and the security of the release (e.g. the introduction of new information security functionality or 
the number and severity of information security vulnerabilities affecting the current version). Software 
patches should be applied when they can help to remove or reduce information security vulnerabilities 
(see 8.8 and 8.19).
Computer software can rely on externally supplied software and packages (e.g. software programs 
using modules which are hosted on external sites), which should be monitored and controlled to avoid 
unauthorized changes, because they can introduce information security vulnerabilities.
Vendor supplied software used in operational systems should be maintained at a level supported 
by the supplier. Over time, software vendors will cease to support older versions of software. The 
organization should consider the risks of relying on unsupported software. Open source software used 
in operational systems should be maintained to the latest appropriate release of the software. Over 
time, open source code can cease to be maintained but is still available in an open source software 
repository. The organization should also consider the risks of relying on unmaintained open source 
software when used in operational systems.
	
﻿
© ISO/IEC 2022 – All rights reserved

﻿
110
