ISO/IEC 27002:2022(E)
When suppliers are involved in installing or updating software, physical or logical access should 
only be given when necessary and with appropriate authorization. The supplier’s activities should be 
monitored (see 5.22).
The organization should define and enforce strict rules on which types of software users can install.
The principle of least privilege should be applied to software installation on operational systems. 
The organization should identify what types of software installations are permitted (e.g. updates and 
security patches to existing software) and what types of installations are prohibited (e.g. software 
that is only for personal use and software whose pedigree with regard to being potentially malicious 
is unknown or suspect). These privileges should be granted based on the roles of the users concerned.
Other information
No other information.
8.20	Networks security
Control type
Information
security properties
Cybersecurity
concepts
Operational
capabilities
Security domains
#Preventive
#Detective
#Confidentiality
#Integrity
#Availability
#Protect #Detect
#System_and_net­
work_security
#Protection
Control
Networks and network devices should be secured, managed and controlled to protect information in 
systems and applications.
Purpose
To protect information in networks and its supporting information processing facilities from 
compromise via the network.
Guidance
Controls should be implemented to ensure the security of information in networks and to protect 
connected services from unauthorized access. In particular, the following items should be considered:
a)	 the type and classification level of information that the network can support;
b)	 establishing responsibilities and procedures for the management of networking equipment and 
devices;
c)	
maintaining up to date documentation including network diagrams and configuration files of 
devices (e.g. routers, switches);
d)	 separating operational responsibility for networks from ICT system operations where appropriate 
(see 5.3);
e)	 establishing controls to safeguard the confidentiality and integrity of data passing over public 
networks, third-party networks or over wireless networks and to protect the connected systems 
and applications (see 5.22, 8.24, 5.14 and 6.6). Additional controls can also be required to maintain 
the availability of the network services and computers connected to the network;
f)	
appropriately logging and monitoring to enable recording and detection of actions that can affect, 
or are relevant to, information security (see 8.16 and 8.15);
g)	 closely coordinating network management activities both to optimize the service to the 
organization and to ensure that controls are consistently applied across the information processing 
infrastructure;
© ISO/IEC 2022 – All rights reserved	
﻿
﻿
111
