ISO/IEC 27002:2022(E)
h)	 authenticating systems on the network;
i)	
restricting and filtering systems connection to the network (e.g. using firewalls);
j)	
detecting, restricting and authenticating the connection of equipment and devices to the network;
k)	 hardening of network devices;
l)	
segregating network administration channels from other network traffic;
m)	 temporarily isolating critical subnetworks (e.g. with drawbridges) if the network is under attack;
n)	 disabling vulnerable network protocols.
The organization should ensure that appropriate security controls are applied to the use of virtualized 
networks. Virtualized networks also cover software-defined networking (SDN, SD-WAN). Virtualized 
networks can be desirable from a security viewpoint, since they can permit logical separation of 
communication taking place over physical networks, particularly for systems and applications that are 
implemented using distributed computing.
Other information
Additional information on network security can be found in the ISO/IEC 27033 series.
More information concerning virtualized networks can be found in ISO/IEC TS 23167.
8.21	Security of network services
Control type
Information
security properties
Cybersecurity
concepts
Operational
capabilities
Security domains
#Preventive
#Confidentiality
#Integrity
#Availability
#Protect
#System_and_net­
work_security
#Protection
Control
Security mechanisms, service levels and service requirements of network services should be identified, 
implemented and monitored.
Purpose
To ensure security in the use of network services.
Guidance
The security measures necessary for particular services, such as security features, service levels and 
service requirements, should be identified and implemented (by internal or external network service 
providers). The organization should ensure that network service providers implement these measures.
The ability of the network service provider to manage agreed services in a secure way should be 
determined and regularly monitored. The right to audit should be agreed between the organization 
and the provider. The organization should also consider third-party attestations provided by service 
providers to demonstrate they maintain appropriate security measures.
Rules on the use of networks and network services should be formulated and implemented to cover:
a)	 the networks and network services which are allowed to be accessed;
b)	 authentication requirements for accessing various network services;
c)	
authorization procedures for determining who is allowed to access which networks and networked 
services;
	
﻿
© ISO/IEC 2022 – All rights reserved

﻿
112
