ISO/IEC 27002:2022(E)
d)	 network management and technological controls and procedures to protect access to network 
connections and network services;
e)	 the means used to access networks and network services [e.g. use of virtual private network (VPN) 
or wireless network];
f)	
time, location and other attributes of the user at the time of the access;
g)	 monitoring of the use of network services.
The following security features of network services should be considered:
a)	 technology applied for security of network services, such as authentication, encryption and 
network connection controls;
b)	 technical parameters required for secured connection with the network services in accordance 
with the security and network connection rules;
c)	
caching (e.g. in a content delivery network) and its parameters that allow users to choose the use of 
caching in accordance with performance, availability and confidentiality requirements;
d)	 procedures for the network service usage to restrict access to network services or applications, 
where necessary.
Other information
Network services include the provision of connections, private network services and managed network 
security solutions such as firewalls and intrusion detection systems. These services can range from 
simple unmanaged bandwidth to complex value-added offerings.
More guidance on a framework for access management is given in ISO/IEC 29146.
8.22	Segregation of networks
Control type
Information
security properties
Cybersecurity
concepts
Operational
capabilities
Security domains
#Preventive
#Confidentiality
#Integrity
#Availability
#Protect
#System_and_net­
work_security
#Protection
Control
Groups of information services, users and information systems should be segregated in the 
organization’s networks.
Purpose
To split the network in security boundaries and to control traffic between them based on business 
needs.
Guidance
The organization should consider managing the security of large networks by dividing them into 
separate network domains and separating them from the public network (i.e. internet). The domains 
can be chosen based on levels of trust, criticality and sensitivity (e.g. public access domain, desktop 
domain, server domain, low- and high-risk systems), along organizational units (e.g. human resources, 
finance, marketing) or some combination (e.g. server domain connecting to multiple organizational 
units). The segregation can be done using either physically different networks or by using different 
logical networks.
The perimeter of each domain should be well-defined. If access between network domains is allowed, 
it should be controlled at the perimeter using a gateway (e.g. firewall, filtering router). The criteria for 
© ISO/IEC 2022 – All rights reserved	
﻿
﻿
113
