ISO/IEC 27002:2022(E)
segregation of networks into domains, and the access allowed through the gateways, should be based 
on an assessment of the security requirements of each domain. The assessment should be in accordance 
with the topic-specific policy on access control (see 5.15), access requirements, value and classification 
of information processed and take account of the relative cost and performance impact of incorporating 
suitable gateway technology.
Wireless networks require special treatment due to the poorly-defined network perimeter. Radio 
coverage adjustment should be considered for segregation of wireless networks. For sensitive 
environments, consideration should be made to treat all wireless access as external connections and 
to segregate this access from internal networks until the access has passed through a gateway in 
accordance with network controls (see 8.20) before granting access to internal systems. Wireless access 
network for guests should be segregated from those for personnel if personnel only use controlled user 
endpoint devices compliant to the organization’s topic-specific policies. WiFi for guests should have 
at least the same restrictions as WiFi for personnel, in order to discourage the use of guest WiFi by 
personnel.
Other information
Networks often extend beyond organizational boundaries, as business partnerships are formed that 
require the interconnection or sharing of information processing and networking facilities. Such 
extensions can increase the risk of unauthorized access to the organization’s information systems 
that use the network, some of which require protection from other network users because of their 
sensitivity or criticality.
8.23 Web filtering
Control type
Information
security properties
Cybersecurity
concepts
Operational
capabilities
Security domains
#Preventive
#Confidentiality
#Integrity
#Availability
#Protect
#System_and_net­
work_security
#Protection
Control
Access to external websites should be managed to reduce exposure to malicious content.
Purpose
To protect systems from being compromised by malware and to prevent access to unauthorized web 
resources.
Guidance
The organization should reduce the risks of its personnel accessing websites that contain illegal 
information or are known to contain viruses or phishing material. A technique for achieving this works 
by blocking the IP address or domain of the website(s) concerned. Some browsers and anti-malware 
technologies do this automatically or can be configured to do so.
The organization should identify the types of websites to which personnel should or should not have 
access. The organization should consider blocking access to the following types of websites:
a)	 websites that have an information upload function unless permitted for valid business reasons;
b)	 known or suspected malicious websites (e.g. those distributing malware or phishing contents);
c)	
command and control servers;
d)	 malicious website acquired from threat intelligence (see 5.7);
e)	 websites sharing illegal content.
	
﻿
© ISO/IEC 2022 – All rights reserved

﻿
114
