ISO/IEC 27002:2022(E)
2)	 the key management, including key generation (see 8.24);
f)	
the standards to be adopted, as well as cryptographic algorithms, cipher strength, cryptographic 
solutions and usage practices that are approved or required for use in the organization;
g)	 the impact of using encrypted information on controls that rely on content inspection (e.g. malware 
detection or content filtering).
When implementing the organization’s rules for effective use of cryptography, the regulations and 
national restrictions that can apply to the use of cryptographic techniques in different parts of the world 
should be taken into consideration as well as the issues of trans-border flow of encrypted information 
(see 5.31).
The contents of service level agreements or contracts with external suppliers of cryptographic services 
(e.g. with a certification authority) should cover issues of liability, reliability of services and response 
times for the provision of services (see 5.22).
Key management
Appropriate key management requires secure processes for generating, storing, archiving, retrieving, 
distributing, retiring and destroying cryptographic keys.
A key management system should be based on an agreed set of standards, procedures and secure 
methods for:
a)	 generating keys for different cryptographic systems and different applications;
b)	 issuing and obtaining public key certificates;
c)	
distributing keys to intended entities, including how to activate keys when received;
d)	 storing keys, including how authorized users obtain access to keys;
e)	 changing or updating keys including rules on when to change keys and how this will be done;
f)	
dealing with compromised keys;
g)	 revoking keys including how to withdraw or deactivate keys [e.g. when keys have been compromised 
or when a user leaves an organization (in which case keys should also be archived)];
h)	 recovering keys that are lost or corrupted;
i)	
backing up or archiving keys;
j)	
destroying keys;
k)	 logging and auditing of key management related activities;
l)	
setting activation and deactivation dates for keys so that the keys can only be used for the period of 
time according to the organization's rules on key management;
m)	 handling legal requests for access to cryptographic keys (e.g. encrypted information can be 
required to be made available in an unencrypted form as evidence in a court case).
All cryptographic keys should be protected against modification and loss. In addition, secret and private 
keys need protection against unauthorized use as well as disclosure. Equipment used to generate, store 
and archive keys should be physically protected.
In addition to integrity, for many use cases, the authenticity of public keys should also be considered.
	
﻿
© ISO/IEC 2022 – All rights reserved

﻿
116
