ISO/IEC 27002:2022(E)
h)	 required application security knowledge and training (see 8.28);
i)	
developers’ capability for preventing, finding and fixing vulnerabilities (see 8.28);
j)	
licensing requirements and alternatives to ensure cost-effective solutions while avoiding future 
licensing issues (See 5.32).
If development is outsourced, the organization should obtain assurance that the supplier complies with 
the organization’s rules for secure development (see 8.30).
Other information
Development can also take place inside applications, such as office applications, scripting, browsers and 
databases.
8.26	Application security requirements
Control type
Information
security properties
Cybersecurity
concepts
Operational
capabilities
Security domains
#Preventive
#Confidentiality
#Integrity
#Availability
#Protect
#Application_security
#System_and_net­
work_security
#Protection
#Defence
Control
Information security requirements should be identified, specified and approved when developing or 
acquiring applications.
Purpose
To ensure all information security requirements are identified and addressed when developing or 
acquiring applications.
Guidance
General
Application security requirements should be identified and specified. These requirements are usually 
determined through a risk assessment. The requirements should be developed with the support of 
information security specialists.
Application security requirements can cover a wide range of topics, depending on the purpose of the 
application.
Application security requirements should include, as applicable:
a)	 level of trust in identity of entities [e.g. through authentication (see 5.17, 8.2 and 8.5)];
b)	 identifying the type of information and classification level to be processed by the application;
c)	
need for segregation of access and level of access to data and functions in the application;
d)	 resilience against malicious attacks or unintentional disruptions [e.g. protection against buffer 
overflow or structured query language (SQL) injections];
e)	 legal, statutory and regulatory requirements in the jurisdiction where the transaction is generated, 
processed, completed or stored;
f)	
need for privacy associated with all parties involved;
g)	 the protection requirements of any confidential information;
h)	 protection of data while being processed, in transit and at rest;
	
﻿
© ISO/IEC 2022 – All rights reserved

﻿
118
