ISO/IEC 27002:2022(E)
i)	
need to securely encrypt communications between all involved parties;
j)	
input controls, including integrity checks and input validation;
k)	 automated controls (e.g. approval limits or dual approvals);
l)	
output controls, also considering who can access outputs and its authorization;
m)	 restrictions around content of "free-text" fields, as these can lead to uncontrolled storage of 
confidential data (e.g. personal data);
n)	 requirements derived from the business process, such as transaction logging and monitoring, 
nonrepudiation requirements;
o)	 requirements mandated by other security controls (e.g. interfaces to logging and monitoring or 
data leakage detection systems);
p)	 error message handling.
Transactional services
Additionally, for applications offering transactional services between the organization and a partner, 
the following should be considered when identifying information security requirements:
a)	 the level of trust each party requires in each other’s claimed identity;
b)	 the level of trust required in the integrity of information exchanged or processed and the 
mechanisms for identification of lack of integrity (e.g. cyclic redundancy check, hashing, digital 
signatures);
c)	
authorization processes associated with who can approve contents of, issue or sign key 
transactional documents;
d)	 confidentiality, integrity, proof of dispatch and receipt of key documents and the non-repudiation 
(e.g. contracts associated with tendering and contract processes);
e)	 the confidentiality and integrity of any transactions (e.g. orders, delivery address details and 
confirmation of receipts);
f)	
requirements on how long to maintain a transaction confidential;
g)	 insurance and other contractual requirements.
Electronic ordering and payment applications
Additionally, for applications involving electronic ordering and payment, the following should be 
considered:
a)	 requirements for maintaining the confidentiality and integrity of order information;
b)	 the degree of verification appropriate to verify payment information supplied by a customer;
c)	
avoidance of loss or duplication of transaction information;
d)	 storing transaction details outside of any publicly accessible environment (e.g. on a storage platform 
existing on the organizational intranet, and not retained and exposed on electronic storage media 
directly accessible from the internet);
e)	 where a trusted authority is used (e.g. for the purposes of issuing and maintaining digital 
signatures or digital certificates) security is integrated and embedded throughout the entire end-
to-end certificate or signature management process.
© ISO/IEC 2022 – All rights reserved	
﻿
﻿
119
