ISO/IEC 27002:2022(E)
Several of the above considerations can be addressed by the application of cryptography (see 8.24), 
taking into consideration legal requirements (see 5.31 to 5.36, especially see 5.31 for cryptography 
legislation).
Other information
Applications accessible via networks are subject to a range of network related threats, such as fraudulent 
activities, contract disputes or disclosure of information to the public; incomplete transmission, mis-
routing, unauthorized message alteration, duplication or replay. Therefore, detailed risk assessments 
and careful determination of controls are indispensable. Controls required often include cryptographic 
methods for authentication and securing data transfer.
Further information on application security can be found in the ISO/IEC 27034 series.
8.27	Secure system architecture and engineering principles
Control type
Information
security properties
Cybersecurity
concepts
Operational
capabilities
Security domains
#Preventive
#Confidentiality
#Integrity
#Availability
#Protect
#Application_security
#System_and_net­
work_security
#Protection
Control
Principles for engineering secure systems should be established, documented, maintained and applied 
to any information system development activities.
Purpose
To ensure information systems are securely designed, implemented and operated within the 
development life cycle.
Guidance
Security engineering principles should be established, documented and applied to information 
system engineering activities. Security should be designed into all architecture layers (business, data, 
applications and technology). New technology should be analysed for security risks and the design 
should be reviewed against known attack patterns.
Secure engineering principles provide guidance on user authentication techniques, secure session 
control and data validation and sanitisation.
Secure system engineering principles should include analysis of:
a)	 the full range of security controls required to protect information and systems against identified 
threats;
b)	 the capabilities of security controls to prevent, detect or respond to security events;
c)	
specific security controls required by particular business processes (e.g. encryption of sensitive 
information, integrity checking and digitally signing information);
d)	 where and how security controls are to be applied (e.g. by integrating with a security architecture 
and the technical infrastructure);
e)	 how individual security controls (manual and automated) work together to produce an integrated 
set of controls.
Security engineering principles should take account of:
a)	 the need to integrate with a security architecture;
	
﻿
© ISO/IEC 2022 – All rights reserved

﻿
120
