ISO/IEC 27002:2022(E)
b)	 technical security infrastructure [e.g. public key infrastructure (PKI), identity and access 
management (IAM), data leakage prevention and dynamic access management];
c)	
capability of the organization to develop and support the chosen technology;
d)	 cost, time and complexity of meeting security requirements;
e)	 current good practices.
Secure system engineering should involve:
a)	 the use of security architecture principles, such as “security by design”, “defence in depth”, 
“security by default”, “default deny”, “fail securely”, “distrust input from external applications”, 
“security in deployment”, “assume breach”, "least privilege", “usability and manageability” and 
“least functionality”;
b)	 a security-oriented design review to help identify information security vulnerabilities, ensure 
security controls are specified and meet security requirements;
c)	
documentation and formal acknowledgement of security controls that do not fully meet 
requirements (e.g. due to overriding safety requirements);
d)	 hardening of systems.
The organization should consider "zero trust" principles such as:
a)	 assuming the organization’s information systems are already breached and thus not be reliant on 
network perimeter security alone;
b)	 employing a “never trust and always verify” approach for access to information systems;
c)	
ensuring that requests to information systems are encrypted end-to-end;
d)	 verifying each request to an information system as if it originated from an open, external network, 
even if these requests originated internal to the organization (i.e. not automatically trusting 
anything inside or outside its perimeters);
e)	 using "least privilege" and dynamic access control techniques (see 5.15, 5.18 and 8.2). This includes 
authenticating and authorizing requests for information or to systems based on contextual 
information such as authentication information (see 5.17), user identities (see 5.16), data about the 
user endpoint device, and data classification (see 5.12);
f)	
always authenticating requesters and always validating authorization requests to information 
systems based on information including authentication information (see 5.17) and user identities 
(5.16), data about the user endpoint device, and data classification (see 5.12), for example enforcing 
strong authentication (e.g. multi-factor, see 8.5).
The established security engineering principles should be applied, where applicable, to outsourced 
development of information systems through the contracts and other binding agreements between the 
organization and the supplier to whom the organization outsources. The organization should ensure 
that suppliers’ security engineering practices align with the organization’s needs.
The security engineering principles and the established engineering procedures should be regularly 
reviewed to ensure that they are effectively contributing to enhanced standards of security within 
the engineering process. They should also be regularly reviewed to ensure that they remain up-to-
date in terms of combatting any new potential threats and in remaining applicable to advances in the 
technologies and solutions being applied.
© ISO/IEC 2022 – All rights reserved	
﻿
﻿
121
