ISO/IEC 27002:2022(E)
Other information
Secure engineering principles can be applied to the design or configuration of a range of techniques, 
such as:
—	 fault tolerance and other resilience techniques;
—	 segregation (e.g. through virtualization or containerization);
—	 tamper resistance.
Secure virtualization techniques can be used to prevent interference between applications running on 
the same physical device. If a virtual instance of an application is compromised by an attacker, only that 
instance is affected. The attack has no effect on any other application or data.
Tamper resistance techniques can be used to detect tampering of information containers, whether 
physical (e.g. a burglar alarm) or logical (e.g. a data file). A characteristic of such techniques is that 
there is a record of the attempt to tamper with the container. In addition, the control can prevent the 
successful extraction of data through its destruction (e.g. device memory can be deleted).
8.28	Secure coding
Control type
Information
security properties
Cybersecurity
concepts
Operational
capabilities
Security do­
mains
#Preventive
#Confidentiality
#Integrity
#Availability
#Protect
#Application_security
#System_and_network_
security
#Protection
Control
Secure coding principles should be applied to software development.
Purpose
To ensure software is written securely thereby reducing the number of potential information security 
vulnerabilities in the software.
Guidance
General
The organization should establish organization-wide processes to provide good governance for secure 
coding. A minimum secure baseline should be established and applied. Additionally, such processes 
and governance should be extended to cover software components from third parties and open source 
software.
The organization should monitor real world threats and up-to-date advice and information on software 
vulnerabilities to guide the organization’s secure coding principles through continual improvement and 
learning. This can help with ensuring effective secure coding practices are implemented to combat the 
fast-changing threat landscape.
Planning and before coding
Secure coding principles should be used both for new developments and in reuse scenarios. These 
principles should be applied to development activities both within the organization and for products 
and services supplied by the organization to others. Planning and prerequisites before coding should 
include:
a)	 organization-specific expectations and approved principles for secure coding to be used for both 
in-house and outsourced code developments;
b)	 common and historical coding practices and defects that lead to information security vulnerabilities;
	
﻿
© ISO/IEC 2022 – All rights reserved

﻿
122
