ISO/IEC 27002:2022(E)
Purpose
To validate if information security requirements are met when applications or code are deployed to the 
production environment.
Guidance
New information systems, upgrades and new versions should be thoroughly tested and verified during 
the development processes. Security testing should be an integral part of the testing for systems or 
components.
Security testing should be conducted against a set of requirements, which can be expressed as 
functional or non-functional. Security testing should include testing of:
a)	 security functions [e.g. user authentication (see 8.5), access restriction (see 8.3) and use of 
cryptography (see 8.24)];
b)	 secure coding (see 8.28);
c)	
secure configurations (see 8.9, 8.20 and 8.22) including that of operating systems, firewalls and 
other security components.
Test plans should be determined using a set of criteria. The extent of testing should be in proportion to 
the importance, nature of the system and the potential impact of the change being introduced. The test 
plan should include:
a)	 detailed schedule of activities and tests;
b)	 inputs and expected outputs under a range of conditions;
c)	
criteria to evaluate the results;
d)	 decision for further actions as necessary.
The organization can leverage automated tools, such as code analysis tools or vulnerability scanners, 
and should verify the remediation of security related defects.
For in-house developments, such tests should initially be performed by the development team. 
Independent acceptance testing should then be undertaken to ensure that the system works as expected 
and only as expected (see 5.8). The following should be considered:
a)	 performing code review activities as a relevant element for testing for security flaws, including un-
anticipated inputs and conditions;
b)	 performing vulnerability scanning to identify insecure configurations and system vulnerabilities;
c)	
performing penetration testing to identify insecure code and design.
For outsourced development and purchasing components, an acquisition process should be followed. 
Contracts with the supplier should address the identified security requirements (see 5.20). Products 
and services should be evaluated against these criteria before acquisition.
Testing should be performed in a test environment that matches the target production environment 
as closely as possible to ensure that the system does not introduce vulnerabilities to the organization’s 
environment and that the tests are reliable (see 8.31).
Other information
Multiple test environments can be established, which can be used for different kinds of testing (e.g. 
functional and performance testing). These different environments can be virtual, with individual 
configurations to simulate a variety of operating environments.
© ISO/IEC 2022 – All rights reserved	
﻿
﻿
125
