ISO/IEC 27002:2022(E)
Testing and monitoring of test environments, tools and technologies also needs to be considered to 
ensure effective testing. The same considerations apply to monitoring of the monitoring systems 
deployed in development, test and production settings. Judgement is needed, guided by the sensitivity 
of the systems and data, to determine how many layers of meta-testing are useful.
8.30	Outsourced development
Control type
Information
security properties
Cybersecurity
concepts
Operational
capabilities
Security domains
#Preventive
#Detective
#Confidentiality
#Integrity
#Availability
#Identify #Protect 
#Detect
#System_and_network_
security
#Application_security
#Supplier_relationships_
security
#Governance_and_
Ecosystem
#Protection
Control
The organization should direct, monitor and review the activities related to outsourced system 
development.
Purpose
To ensure information security measures required by the organization are implemented in outsourced 
system development.
Guidance
Where system development is outsourced, the organization should communicate and agree 
requirements and expectations, and continually monitor and review whether the delivery of outsourced 
work meets these expectations. The following points should be considered across the organization’s 
entire external supply chain:
a)	 licensing agreements, code ownership and intellectual property rights related to the outsourced 
content (see 5.32);
b)	 contractual requirements for secure design, coding and testing practices (see 8.25 to 8.29);
c)	
provision of the threat model to consider by external developers;
d)	 acceptance testing for the quality and accuracy of the deliverables (see 8.29);
e)	 provision of evidence that minimum acceptable levels of security and privacy capabilities are 
established (e.g. assurance reports);
f)	
provision of evidence that sufficient testing has been applied to guard against the presence of 
malicious content (both intentional and unintentional) upon delivery;
g)	 provision of evidence that sufficient testing has been applied to guard against the presence of 
known vulnerabilities;
h)	 escrow agreements for the software source code (e.g. if the supplier goes out of business);
i)	
contractual right to audit development processes and controls;
j)	
security requirements for the development environment (see 8.31);
k)	 taking consideration of applicable legislation (e.g. on protection of personal data).
Other information
Further information on supplier relationships can be found in the ISO/IEC 27036 series.
	
﻿
© ISO/IEC 2022 – All rights reserved

﻿
126
