ISO/IEC 27002:2022(E)
Other information
Without adequate measures and procedures, developers and testers having access to production 
systems can introduce significant risks (e.g. unwanted modification of files or system environment, 
system failure, running unauthorized and untested code in production systems, disclosure of 
confidential data, data integrity and availability issues). There is a need to maintain a known and stable 
environment in which to perform meaningful testing and to prevent inappropriate developer access to 
the production environment.
Measures and procedures include carefully designed roles in conjunction with implementing 
segregation of duty requirements and having adequate monitoring processes in place.
Development and testing personnel also pose a threat to the confidentiality of production information. 
Development and testing activities can cause unintended changes to software or information if they 
share the same computing environment. Separating development, testing and production environments 
is therefore desirable to reduce the risk of accidental change or unauthorized access to production 
software and business data (see 8.33 for the protection of test information).
In some cases, the distinction between development, test and production environments can be 
deliberately blurred and testing can be carried out in a development environment or through controlled 
rollouts to live users or servers (e.g. small population of pilot users). In some cases, product testing can 
occur through live use of the product inside the organization. Furthermore, to reduce downtime of live 
deployments, two identical production environments can be supported where only one is live at any 
one time.
Supporting processes for the use of production data in development and testing environments (8.33) 
are necessary.
Organizations can also consider the guidance provided in this section for training environments when 
conducting end user training.
8.32	Change management
Control type
Information
security properties
Cybersecurity
concepts
Operational
capabilities
Security domains
#Preventive
#Confidentiality
#Integrity
#Availability
#Protect
#Application_security
#System_and_net­
work_security
#Protection
Control
Changes to information processing facilities and information systems should be subject to change 
management procedures.
Purpose
To preserve information security when executing changes.
Guidance
Introduction of new systems and major changes to existing systems should follow agreed rules and a 
formal process of documentation, specification, testing, quality control and managed implementation. 
Management responsibilities and procedures should be in place to ensure satisfactory control of all 
changes.
Change control procedures should be documented and enforced to ensure the confidentiality, integrity 
and availability of information in information processing facilities and information systems, for the 
entire system development life cycle from the early design stages through all subsequent maintenance 
efforts.
	
﻿
© ISO/IEC 2022 – All rights reserved

﻿
128
