ISO/IEC 27002:2022(E)
Wherever practicable, change control procedures for ICT infrastructure and software should be 
integrated.
The change control procedures should include:
a)	 planning and assessing the potential impact of changes considering all dependencies;
b)	 authorization of changes;
c)	
communicating changes to relevant interested parties;
d)	 tests and acceptance of tests for the changes (see 8.29);
e)	 implementation of changes including deployment plans;
f)	
emergency and contingency considerations including fall-back procedures;
g)	 maintaining records of changes that include all of the above;
h)	 ensuring that operating documentation (see 5.37) and user procedures are changed as necessary 
to remain appropriate;
i)	
ensuring that ICT continuity plans and response and recovery procedures (see 5.30) are changed 
as necessary to remain appropriate.
Other information
Inadequate control of changes to information processing facilities and information systems is a 
common cause of system or security failures. Changes to the production environment, especially when 
transferring software from development to operational environment, can impact on the integrity and 
availability of applications.
Changing software can impact the production environment and vice versa.
Good practice includes the testing of ICT components in an environment segregated from both the 
production and development environments (see 8.31). This provides a means of having control over 
new software and allowing additional protection of operational information that is used for testing 
purposes. This should include patches, service packs and other updates.
Production environment includes operating systems, databases and middleware platforms. The control 
should be applied for changes of applications and infrastructures.
8.33	Test information
Control type
Information
security properties
Cybersecurity
concepts
Operational
capabilities
Security domains
#Preventive
#Confidentiality
#Integrity
#Protect
#Information_protection
#Protection
Control
Test information should be appropriately selected, protected and managed.
Purpose
To ensure relevance of testing and protection of operational information used for testing.
Guidance
Test information should be selected to ensure the reliability of tests results and the confidentiality of the 
relevant operational information. Sensitive information (including personally identifiable information) 
should not be copied into the development and testing environments (see 8.31).
© ISO/IEC 2022 – All rights reserved	
﻿
﻿
129
