 – 16 –
 62443-2-1 Ó IEC:2010(E)
 SIS
 Safety instrumented system(s)
 SoA
 Statement of applicability
 SOC
 Standard operating condition
 SOP
 Standard operating procedure
 SP
 Special Publication (by NIST)
 SSL
 Secure socket layer
 TCP
 Transmission control protocol
 TR
 Technical report
 VLAN
 Virtual local area network
 VPN
 Virtual private network
 WAN
 Wide area network
 3.3
 Conventions
 The elements of a CSMS are the following:
 ·
 the objective of the element,
 ·
 a basic description of the element,
 ·
 a rationale to explain why the element is included and
 ·
 the requirements for that element.
 A tabular presentation is used to provide a description and requirements for each element.
 The requirements are numbered similar to subclauses (but are not in themselves subclauses),
 so that the requirements can be referenced individually and selectively.
 4
 Elements of a cyber security management system
 4.1
 Overview
 This clause presents the elements that constitute a CSMS for IACS. These elements
 represent what shall and should be included in the CSMS in order to protect IACS against
 cyber attacks.
 The elements are presented in the following three main categories:
 ·
 Risk analysis,
 ·
 Addressing risk with the CSMS, and
 ·
 Monitoring and improving the CSMS.
 Each of these categories is further divided into element groups and/or elements. Figure 1
 depicts the relationship between the categories, element groups and elements.
 62443-2-1 Ó IEC:2010(E)
 – 17 –
 Risk analysis
 Risk identification,
 classification and
 assessment
 Business rationale
 Addressing risk with the CSMS
 Security policy,
 organization and
 awareness
 CSMS scope
 Organize for
 security
 Staff training and
 security
 awareness
 Business
 continuity plan
 Security policies
 and procedures
 Selected security
 countermeasures
 Personnel
 security
 Physical and
 environmental
 security
 Network
 segmentation
 Access control -
 Account
 administration
 Access control -
 Authentication
 Access control -
 Authorization
 Implementation
 Risk
 management and
 implementation
 System
 development and
 maintenance
 Information and
 document
 management
 Incident planning
 and response
 Monitoring and improving the CSMS
 Conformance
 Review, improve and
 maintain the CSMS
 Figure 1 – Graphical view of elements of a cyber security management system
 Each element in this clause lists the objective of the element, a basic description of the
 element, a rationale to explain why the element is included and the requirements for that
 element.
 Annex A follows the same basic structure of this clause with categories, element groups and
 elements. However, the annex provides guidance on how to develop the elements of the
 CSMS. The reader should read Annex A in order to understand the special needs and issues
 involved with developing a CSMS for IACS. The guidance discussed in Annex A should be
 tailored to the special requirements of each organization.
 This standard specifies the elements required for a CSMS. It is not the intent of the standard
 to specify a particular sequential process for identifying and addressing risk that incorporates
 these elements. Thus an organization will create such a process in accordance with its
 culture, organization and the current status of its cyber security activities. To assist
 organizations with this aspect of applying the standard, A.3.4.2 provides an example of a
 process for identifying and addressing risk. In addition, Annex B offers insights on effective
 ordering for activities related to all of the elements discussed in this standard.
 IEC 2312/10
 – 18 –
 62443-2-1 Ó IEC:2010(E)
 While a CSMS is an excellent tool for managing risk within a large company it is equally
 applicable to small companies as well. The CSMS may be more formalized in a large
 company so it can be used in many different situations and geographies. In a small company,
 similar CSMS activities need to be conducted, but they may not be as formal. Clause 4 and
 Annex A provide guidance to help the user better understand the elements and activities of a
 CSMS.
 4.2
 Category: Risk analysis
 4.2.1
 Description of category
 The first main category of the CSMS is Risk analysis. This category discusses much of the
 background information that feeds into many of the other elements in the CSMS. Figure 2
 shows the two elements that are part of the category:
 ·
 Business rationale and
 ·
 Risk identification, classification and assessment.
 Risk analysis
 Risk identification,
 classification and
 assessment
 Business rationale
 Figure 2 – Graphical view of category: Risk analysis
 4.2.2
 Element: Business rationale
 Objective:
 Identify and document the unique needs of an organization to address cyber risk for IACS.
 Description:
 A business rationale is based on the nature and magnitude of financial, HSE, and other
 potential consequences should IACS cyber incidents occur.
 Rationale:
 Establishing a business rationale is essential in order for an organization to maintain
 management buy in to an appropriate level of investment for the IACS cyber security program.
 Requirements:
 Table 1 – Business rationale: Requirements
 Description
 Requirement
 4.2.2.1
 Develop a business
 rationale
 The organization should develop a high-level business rationale, as
 a basis for its effort to manage IACS cyber security, which
 addresses the unique dependence of the organization on IACS.
 4.2.3
 Element: Risk identification, classification and assessment
 Objective:
 Identify the set of IACS cyber risks that an organization faces and assess the likelihood and
 severity of these risks.
 IEC 2313/10
 62443-2-1 Ó IEC:2010(E)
 – 19 –
 Description:
 Organizations protect their ability to perform their mission by systematically identifying,
 prioritizing and analyzing potential security threats, vulnerabilities, and consequences using
 accepted methodologies. The first set of requirements present the actions an organization
 takes to carry out both a high-level and detailed risk assessment that incorporates
 vulnerability assessment, in a typical chronological order. Among these requirements, those
 related to preparing for high-level and detailed risk assessments are 4.2.3.1, 4.2.3.2 and
 4.2.3.8 below. The last few requirements (4.2.3.10 to 4.2.3.14) are general requirements that
 apply to the overall risk assessment process. Subclause 4.3.4.2 covers the process of taking
 action based upon this assessment.
 Rationale:
 Since the purpose of investing in cyber security is to lower risk, it is driven by an
 understanding of level of risk and potential mitigations.
 Requirements:
 Table 2 – Risk identification, classification and assessment: Requirements
 Description
 Requirement
 4.2.3.1
 Select a risk assessment
 methodology
 The organization shall select a particular risk assessment and
 analysis approach and methodology that identifies and prioritizes
 risks based upon security threats, vulnerabilities and consequences
 related to their IACS assets.
 4.2.3.2
 Provide risk assessment
 background information
 The organization should provide participants in the risk assessment
 activity with appropriate information including methodology training,
 before beginning to identify the risks.
 4.2.3.3
 Conduct a high-level risk
 assessment
 A high-level system risk assessment shall be performed to
 understand the financial and HSE consequences in the event that
 availability, integrity or confidentiality of the IACS is compromised.
 4.2.3.4
 Identify the IACS
 The organization shall identify the various IACS, gather data about
 the devices to characterize the nature of the security risk and group
 the devices into logical systems.
 4.2.3.5
 Develop simple network
 diagrams
 The organization shall develop simple network diagrams for each of
 the logically integrated systems showing the major devices, network
 types and general locations of the equipment.
 4.2.3.6
 Prioritize systems
 The organization shall develop the criteria and assign a priority
 rating for mitigating the risk of each logical control system.
 4.2.3.7
 Perform a detailed
 vulnerability assessment
 The organization shall perform a detailed vulnerability assessment
 of its individual logical IACS, which may be scoped based on the
 high-level risk assessment results and prioritization of IACS subject
 to these risks.
 4.2.3.8
 Identify a detailed risk
 assessment methodology
 The organization’s risk assessment methodology shall include
 methods for prioritizing detailed vulnerabilities identified in the
 detailed vulnerability assessment.
 4.2.3.9
 Conduct a detailed risk
 assessment
 The organization shall conduct a detailed risk assessment
 incorporating the vulnerabilities identified in the detailed
 vulnerability assessment.
 4.2.3.10
 Identify the reassessment
 frequency and triggering
 criteria
 The organization shall identify the risk and vulnerability
 reassessment frequency as well as any reassessment triggering
 criteria based on technology, organization, or industrial operation
 changes.
 – 20 –
 62443-2-1 Ó IEC:2010(E)
 Description
 Requirement
 4.2.3.11
 Integrate physical, HSE and
 cyber security risk
 assessment results
 The results of physical, HSE and cyber security risk assessments
 shall be integrated to understand the assets’ overall risk.
 4.2.3.12
 Conduct risk assessments
 throughout the lifecycle of
 the IACS
 Risk assessments shall be conducted through all stages of the
 technology lifecycle including development, implementation,
 changes and retirement.
 4.2.3.13
 Document the risk
 assessment
 The risk assessment methodology and the results of the risk
 assessment shall be documented.
 4.2.3.14
 Maintain vulnerability
 assessment records
 Up-to-date vulnerability assessment records should be maintained
 for all assets comprising the IACS.
 4.3
 Category: Addressing risk with the CSMS
 4.3.1
 Description of category
 The second main category of the CSMS is Addressing risk with the CSMS. This category
 contains the bulk of the requirements and information contained in the CSMS. It is divided into
 the following three element groups:
 ·
 Security policy, organization and awareness,
 ·
 Selected security countermeasures and
 ·
 Implementation.
 4.3.2
 Element group: Security policy, organization and awareness
 4.3.2.1
 Description of element group
 The first element group in this category discusses the development of the basic cyber security
 policies, the organizations responsible for cyber security and the awareness within the
 organization of cyber security issues. Figure 3 shows a graphical representation of the five
 elements contained in this element group:
 ·
 CSMS scope,
 ·
 Organizing for security,
 ·
 Staff training and security awareness,
 ·
 Business continuity plan and
 ·
 Security policies and procedures.
 Addressing risk with the CSMS
 Security policy, organization and awareness
 CSMS scope
 Organize for
 security
 Staff training and
 security
 awareness
 Business
 continuity plan
 Security policies
 and procedures
 Figure 3 – Graphical view of element group:
 Security policy, organization and awareness
 IEC 2314/10
 62443-2-1 Ó IEC:2010(E)
 – 21 –
 4.3.2.2
 Element: CSMS scope
 Objective:
 Identify, assess and document the systems, processes and organizations to which the CSMS
 applies.
 Description:
 The scope includes all aspects of the IACS, integration points with business partners,
 customers and suppliers.
 Rationale:
 Management should understand the boundaries where the CSMS applies to the organization
 as well as establish a direction and focus for the CSMS. By developing a clearly defined
 scope, it is easier for management to convey its goals and purpose for the CSMS.
 Requirements:
 Table 3 – CSMS scope: Requirements
 Description
 Requirement
 4.3.2.2.1
 Define the scope of the
 CSMS
 The organization shall develop a formal written scope for the cyber
 security program.
 4.3.2.2.2
 Define the scope content
 The scope should explain the strategic goals, process, and timing
 for the CSMS.
 4.3.2.3
 Element: Organizing for security
 Objective:
 Establish the entities responsible for managing, conducting and assessing the overall cyber
 security of the organization’s IACS assets.
 Description:
 Senior leadership establishes an organization, structure or network of people to provide
 oversight and direction for managing cyber security risks associated with IACS. They also
 provide the personnel necessary to conduct and assess the cyber security programs
 throughout the organization over the life of the CSMS. An organization at any level may
 implement this standard, including a company or other overall enterprise, division, plant or
 subset of a plant.
 Rationale:
 Commitment to a security program begins at the top of the organization. Because cyber
 security of IACS involves several different sets of skills not often found in any one particular
 section or department of an organization, it is imperative that senior leadership formulate an
 approach to managing security with clear identification of accountability and responsibility that
 makes good use of skills and labor resources. This may take several different forms from a
 single organization to a network of people working together to address different security
 aspects. The particular approach is highly dependent upon an organization’s operational
 culture.
 – 22 –
 62443-2-1 Ó IEC:2010(E)
 Requirements:
 Table 4 – Organizing for security: Requirements
 Description
 Requirement
 4.3.2.3.1
 Obtain senior
 management support
 The organization shall obtain senior management support for a
 cyber security program.
 4.3.2.3.2
 Establish the security
 organization(s)
 There shall be an organization, structure or network of stakeholders
 established (or chosen) under management leadership, with the
 responsibility to provide clear direction and oversight for the cyber
 aspects of the IACS.
 4.3.2.3.3
 Define the organizational
 responsibilities
 Organizational responsibilities shall be clearly defined for cyber
 security and related physical security activities.
 4.3.2.3.4
 Define the stakeholder
 team makeup
 The core team of stakeholders should be cross-functional in nature
 to bring together the skills necessary to address security in all parts
 of the IACS.
 4.3.2.4
 Element: Staff training and security awareness
 Objective:
 Provide all personnel (including employees, contract employees and third-party contractors)
 with the information necessary to identify, review, address and where appropriate, remediate
 vulnerabilities and threats to IACS and to help ensure their own work practices are using
 effective countermeasures.
 Description:
 All personnel should receive adequate technical training associated with the known threats
 and vulnerabilities of hardware, software and social engineering.
 Rationale:
 In the area of IACS, the same emphasis should be placed on cyber security as on safety and
 operational integrity, because the consequences can be just as severe. Security awareness
 for all personnel is an essential tool for reducing cyber security risks. Knowledgeable and
 vigilant staff are one of the most important lines of defense in securing a system. It is
 therefore important for all personnel to understand the importance of security in maintaining
 the safe operation of the system.
 Requirements:
 Table 5 – Staff training and security awareness: Requirements
 Description
 Requirement
 4.3.2.4.1
 Develop a training
 program
 The organization shall design and implement a cyber security
 training program.
 4.3.2.4.2
 Provide procedure and
 facility training
 All personnel (including employees, contract employees, and third-
 party contractors) shall be trained initially and periodically thereafter
 in the correct security procedures and the correct use of information
 processing facilities.
 62443-2-1 Ó IEC:2010(E)
 – 23 –
 Description
 Requirement
 4.3.2.4.3
 Provide training for
 support personnel
 All personnel that perform risk management, IACS engineering,
 system administration/maintenance and other tasks that impact the
 CSMS should be trained on the security objectives and industrial
 operations for these tasks.
 4.3.2.4.4
 Validate the training
 program
 The training program should be validated on an on-going basis to
 ensure that personnel understand the security program and that
 they are receiving the proper training.
 4.3.2.4.5
 Revise the training
 program over time
 The cyber security training program shall be revised, as necessary,
 to account for new or changing threats and vulnerabilities.
 4.3.2.4.6
 Maintain employee
 training records
 Records of employee training and schedules for training updates
 should be maintained and reviewed on a regular basis.
 4.3.2.5
 Element: Business continuity plan
 Objective:
 Identify procedures for maintaining and/or re-establishing essential business operations while
 recovering from a significant disruption.
 Description:
 A business continuity plan should address the recovery objectives for the various systems and
 subsystems involved based on typical business needs, a list of potential interruptions and the
 recovery procedures for each, as well as a schedule to test part or all of the recovery
 procedures. One of the primary recovery objectives should be to maintain maximum
 availability of the control system.
 Rationale:
 No set of defenses can prevent all disruptions due to cyber security incidents. A detailed
 Business Continuity Plan ensures that IACS information can be restored and utilized as soon
 as possible after the occurrence of a significant disruption.
 Requirements:
 Table 6 – Business continuity plan: Requirements
 Description
 Requirement
 4.3.2.5.1
 Specify recovery
 objectives
 Prior to creating a business continuity plan, the organization shall
 specify recovery objectives for the systems involved based on
 business needs.
 4.3.2.5.2
 Determine the impact and
 consequences to each
 system
 The organization should determine the impact to each system due
 to a significant disruption and the consequences associated with
 loss of one or more of the systems.
 4.3.2.5.3
 Develop and implement
 business continuity
 plans
 Continuity plans shall be developed and implemented to ensure that
 business processes can be restored in accordance with recovery
 objectives.
 4.3.2.5.4
 Form a business
 continuity team
 A business continuity team should be formed including IACS and
 other process owners. In the event of a significant disruption, this
 team should determine the priority of critical business and IACS
 systems to re-establish operations.
 – 24 –
 62443-2-1 Ó IEC:2010(E)
 Description
 Requirement
 4.3.2.5.5
 Define and communicate
 specific roles and
 responsibilities
 The business continuity plan shall define and communicate the
 specific roles and responsibilities for each part of the plan.
 4.3.2.5.6
 Create backup
 procedures that support
 business continuity plan
 The organization shall create backup and restore procedures (see
 4.3.4.3.9) that support the business continuity plan.
 4.3.2.5.7
 Test and update the
 business continuity plan
 The business continuity plan shall be tested on a regular basis and
 updated as necessary.
 4.3.2.6
 Element: Security policies and procedures
 Objective:
 Address how an organization defines security, operates its security program, defines and
 addresses its tolerance for risk and reviews its program to make further improvements.
 Description:
 Cyber security policies for the IACS environment should be developed based on existing high-
 level policies, characterized risks and the risk tolerance levels identified by management.
 Cyber security procedures are developed from the cyber security policies and identify how the
 policies are to be implemented.
 Rationale:
 These written policies and procedures allow employees, contractors, third parties, and the like
 to clearly understand the company perspective of cyber security and their roles and
 responsibilities in securing the company’s assets.
 Requirements:
 Table 7 – Security policies and procedures: Requirements
 Description
 Requirement
 4.3.2.6.1
 Develop security policies
 The organization shall develop high-level cyber security policies for
 the IACS environment which are approved by management.
 4.3.2.6.2
 Develop security
 procedures
 The organization shall develop and approve cyber security
 procedures, based on the cyber security policies and provide
 guidance in how to meet the policies.
 4.3.2.6.3
 Maintain consistency
 between risk
 management systems
 Cyber security policies and procedures that deal with IACS risks
 should be consistent with or extensions of policies created by other
 risk management systems.
 4.3.2.6.4
 Define cyber security
 policy and procedure
 compliance requirements
 Cyber security policies and procedures, for the IACS environment,
 shall include compliance requirements.
 4.3.2.6.5
 Determine the
 organization’s tolerance
 for risk
 The organization shall determine and document its risk tolerance as
 a basis for creation of policy and risk management activities.
 4.3.2.6.6
 Communicate the
 policies and procedures
 to the organization
 Cyber security policies and procedures, for the IACS environment,
 shall be communicated to all appropriate personnel.
 62443-2-1 Ó IEC:2010(E)
 – 25 –
 Description
 Requirement
 4.3.2.6.7
 Review and update the
 cyber security policies
 and procedures
 The cyber security policies and procedures shall be reviewed
 regularly, validated to confirm that they are up-to-date and being
 followed and updated as required to ensure that they remain
 appropriate.
 4.3.2.6.8
 Demonstrate senior
 leadership support for
 cyber security
 Senior leadership shall demonstrate commitment to cyber security
 by endorsing the cyber security policies.
 4.3.3
 Element group: Selected security countermeasures
 4.3.3.1
 Description of element group
 The second element group within this category is Selected security countermeasures. The
 elements within this group discuss some of the main types of security controls that are part of
 a well designed CSMS. This document does not attempt to describe the full implementation of
 any of these selected security countermeasures. It discusses many of the policy, procedure
 and practice issues related to these particular security countermeasures. Figure 4 shows a
 graphical representation of the six elements in the element group:
 ·
 Personnel security,
 ·
 Physical and environmental security,
 ·
 Network segmentation,
 ·
 Access control – Account administration,
 ·
 Access control – Authentication and
 ·
 Access control – Authorization.
 Addressing risk with the CSMS
 Selected security countermeasures
 Personnel
 security
 Physical and
 environmental
 security
 Network
 segmentation
 Access control -
 Account
 administration
 Access control -
 Authentication
 Access control -
 Authorization
 Figure 4 – Graphical view of element group: Selected security countermeasures
 These particular countermeasures were selected for inclusion because their broad impact on
 policy and architecture makes it essential to consider them up front when constructing any
 CSMS. It is not the intent of this standard to specify a complete and sufficient list of
 countermeasures, since completeness is determined through the process of risk assessment
 and management described in the standard.
 4.3.3.2
 Element: Personnel security
 Objective:
 Establish the policies and procedures to determine whether personnel will maintain the IACS
 security of the organization throughout the lifecycle of their employment.
 IEC 2315/10
 – 26 –
 62443-2-1 Ó IEC:2010(E)
 Description:
 Personnel security involves looking at new and current personnel to determine if they will
 maintain the IACS security for the organization. For new personnel, it evaluates them prior to
 their entry into the organization making sure they demonstrate behaviors consistent with their
 future security responsibility. For current personnel, it establishes that they continue to
 demonstrate behavior consistent with their current security responsibilities.
 Rationale:
 In many organizations, personnel security requirements are driven by concerns about insider
 threats and the possibility of accidents caused by inattention to detail or by personnel unfit for
 a job due to lack of proper background or the use of substances that might cloud judgment.
 By implementing personnel security policies it may be possible to reduce these types of
 problems.
 Requirements:
 Table 8 – Personnel security: Requirements
 Description
 Requirement
 4.3.3.2.1
 Establish a personnel
 security policy
 There shall be a personnel security policy established, clearly
 stating the organization’s commitment to security and the security
 responsibilities of personnel. (Personnel include employees,
 prospective employees, contract employees, and third-party
 contractors.)
 4.3.3.2.2
 Screen personnel initially
 Unless government regulation prohibits it, all personnel with access
 to the IACS (both physical and cyber), including new hires and
 internal transfers to sensitive positions shall be screened, including
 validation of their identity and background checks, during the job
 application process.
 4.3.3.2.3
 Screen personnel on an
 ongoing basis
 Personnel should also be subject to ongoing scrutiny for changes
 that might indicate a conflict of interest or concern for performing
 the job in an appropriate manner.
 4.3.3.2.4
 Address security
 responsibilities
 The personnel security policy should address security
 responsibilities from recruitment through the end of employment,
 especially for sensitive positions.
 4.3.3.2.5
 Document and
 communicate security
 expectations and
 responsibilities
 Security expectations and responsibilities shall be clearly
 documented and regularly communicated to personnel.
 4.3.3.2.6
 State cyber security
 terms and conditions of
 employment clearly
 Terms and conditions of employment shall clearly state the
 personnel’s responsibility for cyber security. These responsibilities
 shall extend for a reasonable period of time after employment
 ceases.
 4.3.3.2.7
 Segregate duties to
 maintain appropriate
 checks and balances
 Duties should be segregated amongst personnel to maintain
 appropriate checks and balances, so that no single individual has
 total control over actions that change the functional operation of the
 IACS.
 4.3.3.3
 Element: Physical and environmental security
 Objective:
 Create a secure environment for the protection of IACS assets. An asset is any physical or
 logical object owned by, or under the custodial duties of, an organization, having either a
 perceived or actual value to the organization (see IEC/TS 62443‑1‑1). IACS assets are those
 62443-2-1 Ó IEC:2010(E)
 – 27 –
 assets that are a part of the IACS, either physical or cyber or that can affect the operation of
 the IACS. Physical security measures ensure that all assets, specifically those related to the
 IACS of an organization, are protected physically from unauthorized access, loss, damage,
 misuse, and the like. Environmental security measures ensure that the assets of an
 organization are protected against environmental conditions that would make them unusable
 or damage the information they contain.
 Description:
 Physical and environmental security measures should be designed to complement the cyber
 security measures taken to protect assets that are part of the IACS and coordinated with the
 physical security of the remainder of the plant. When developing a program for physical
 security of assets, it is important to include all systems in the scope and not just limit the
 effort to traditional computer room facilities. Practical engineering judgment should be used to
 balance the risks when determining physical security procedures. Physical segmentation is a
 key security countermeasure designed to compartmentalize devices into security zones where
 identified security practices are employed to achieve the desired target security level.
 Rationale:
 Physical assets are a means to an end as well as the end itself. In modern control systems
 the physical assets provide the means by which the cyber system operates. Therefore, the
 asset has value in itself but also has value as an integral part of the control system. Since
 both the asset and the control system require each other, both shall be protected in order for
 the system to be secure. The overriding security premise is that the use of security
 countermeasures should be commensurate with the level of risk. While physical segmentation
 is an important security countermeasure employed in conjunction with other layers of defense
 to reduce the risk that may be associated with IACS, it may not be necessary if the security
 risks are within accepted limits.
 Requirements:
 Table 9 – Physical and environmental security: Requirements
 Description
 Requirement
 4.3.3.3.1
 Establish complementary
 physical and cyber
 security policies
 Security policies and procedures that address both physical and
 cyber security in the protection of assets shall be established.
 4.3.3.3.2
 Establish physical
 security perimeter(s)
 One or more physical security perimeters shall be established to
 provide barriers to unauthorized access to protected assets.
 4.3.3.3.3
 Provide entry controls
 Appropriate entry controls shall be provided at each barrier or
 boundary.
 4.3.3.3.4
 Protect assets against
 environmental damage
 Assets shall be protected against environmental damage from
 threats such as fire, water, smoke, dust, radiation, corrosion and
 impact.
 4.3.3.3.5
 Require employees to
 follow security
 procedures
 Employees shall be required to follow and enforce the physical
 security procedures that have been established.
 4.3.3.3.6
 Protect connections
 All connections under the control of the organization shall be
 adequately protected from tampering or damage.
 4.3.3.3.7
 Maintain equipment
 assets
 All equipment assets, including auxiliary environmental equipment,
 shall be properly maintained to ensure proper operation.
 4.3.3.3.8
 Establish procedures for
 monitoring and alarming
 Procedures shall be established for monitoring and alarming when
 physical or environmental security is compromised.
 – 28 –
 62443-2-1 Ó IEC:2010(E)
 Description
 Requirement
 4.3.3.3.9
 Establish procedures for
 the addition, removal,
 and disposal of assets
 Procedures should be established and audited with respect to the
 addition, removal and disposal of all assets.
 4.3.3.3.10
 Establish procedures for
 the interim protection of
 critical assets
 Procedures shall be established to ensure the protection of critical
 components during the interruption of operations, for example, due
 to fire, water ingress, security breach, interruption, natural or any
 other type of disaster.
 4.3.3.4
 Element: Network segmentation
 Objective:
 Group and separate key IACS devices into zones with common security levels in order to
 manage security risks and to achieve a desired target security level for each zone.
 Description:
 Network segmentation is a key security countermeasure designed to compartmentalize
 devices into security zones where identified security practices are employed to achieve the
 desired target security level. The zone may be an isolated standalone network segment or a
 network segment separated from the organization’s network by some sort of network barrier
 device. IACS should be designed in a manner that filters/prevents nonessential
 communication packets from reaching the IACS devices.
 For Transmission Control Protocol / Internet Protocol (TCP/IP) based networks, the most
 common barrier devices in use are firewalls, routers and layer 3 switches. For non-TCP/IP
 type networks, the barrier devices may be standalone gateways or integrated into the network
 interface module of an IACS device.
 Rationale:
 The overriding security premise is that the use of security countermeasures should be
 commensurate with the level of risk. While network segmentation is an important security
 countermeasure employed in conjunction with other layers of defense to reduce the risk that
 may be associated with IACS, it may not be necessary if the security risks are low.
 Requirements:
 Table 10 – Network segmentation: Requirements
 Description
 Requirement
 4.3.3.4.1
 Develop the network
 segmentation
 architecture
 A network segmentation countermeasure strategy employing
 security zones shall be developed for IACS devices based upon the
 risk level of the IACS.
 4.3.3.4.2
 Employ isolation or
 segmentation on high-
 risk IACS
 High-risk IACS shall be isolated from or employ a barrier device to
 separate it from other zones with different security levels or risks.
 4.3.3.4.3
 Block non-essential
 communications with
 barrier devices
 Barrier devices shall block all non-essential communications in and
 out of the security zone containing critical control equipment.
 62443-2-1 Ó IEC:2010(E)
 – 29 –
 4.3.3.5
 Element: Access control – Account administration
 Objective:
 Ensure, on an ongoing basis, that only appropriate entities have accounts that allow access
 and that these accounts provide appropriate access privileges.
 Description:
 Access control is the method of controlling who or what entities can access premises and
 systems and what type of access is permitted. There are three key aspects associated with
 access control: account administration, authentication and authorization. All three aspects
 shall work together to establish a sound and secure access control strategy.
 Account administration is the method associated with granting and revoking access accounts
 and maintaining the permissions and privileges provided under these accounts to access
 specific resources and functions on the physical premises, network or system. Access
 accounts should be function or role-based and may be defined for individuals, groups of
 individuals functioning as a crew or for devices providing a function.
 Rationale:
 The misuse of data and systems may have serious consequences, including harm to human
 life, environmental damage, financial loss and damaged corporate reputation. These risks are
 increased when employees, contractors or temporary personnel have unnecessary access to
 data and systems.
 Requirements:
 Table 11 – Access control – Account administration: Requirements
 Description
 Requirement
 4.3.3.5.1
 Access accounts
 implement authorization
 security policy
 Access privileges implemented for access accounts shall be
 established in accordance with the organization’s authorization
 security policy (see 4.3.3.7.1).
 4.3.3.5.2
 Identify individuals
 As for all cyber security controls, the choice of access accounts for
 individuals versus access accounts for a crew shall be determined
 by considering threats, risks and vulnerabilities. In this case,
 considerations include HSE risks of individual controls, mitigation
 using complementary physical security controls, requirement for
 accountability and administrative/operational need.
 4.3.3.5.3
 Authorize account
 access
 Access shall be granted, changed, or terminated on the authority of
 an appropriate manager.
 4.3.3.5.4
 Record access accounts
 A record shall be maintained of all access accounts, including
 details of the individual(s) and devices authorized to use the
 account, their permissions and the authorizing manager.
 4.3.3.5.5
 Suspend or remove
 unneeded accounts
 Access accounts shall be suspended or removed as soon as they
 are no longer needed (for example, job change).
 4.3.3.5.6
 Review account
 permissions
 All established access accounts shall be reviewed regularly to
 ensure that the individual(s) and devices have only the minimum
 required permissions.
 4.3.3.5.7
 Change default
 passwords
 Default passwords for access accounts shall be changed before the
 IACS is put into service.
 4.3.3.5.8
 Audit account
 administration
 Periodic reviews of compliance to the account administration policy
 should be performed.
 – 30 –
 62443-2-1 Ó IEC:2010(E)
 4.3.3.6
 Element: Access control – Authentication
 Objective:
 Positively identify network users, hosts, applications, services and resources for computerized
 transaction so that they can be given the rights and responsibilities associated with the
 accounts they have been granted under account administration.
 Description:
 Access control is the method of controlling who or what resources can access premises and
 systems and what type of access is permitted. There are three key aspects associated with
 access control: account administration, authentication and authorization. All three aspects
 shall work together to establish a sound and secure access control strategy.
 There are several types of authentication strategies and each has varying degrees of
 strength. Strong authentication methods are ones that are quite accurate in positively
 identifying the user. Weak authentication methods are ones that can be easily defeated to
 provide unwanted access to information. Physical location of the user may have a significant
 impact on the risk of accessing the IACS.
 Rationale:
 Authentication requirements are more stringent for administration/configuration users and
 remote users, than for other users. This is because administration/configuration users have
 broader privileges and their actions have potentially more impact than other users; and
 remote users are typically not subject to complementary physical access controls. Automatic
 account lockout due to failed logins or periods of inactivity increases authentication strength,
 but is considered carefully in the IACS environment, since failure to authenticate a valid user
 could have HSE implications if the user is not able to perform tasks in a critical situation. In
 the IACS environment, there is a great emphasis on combining physical authentication
 measures with electronic authentication practices.
 Requirements:
 Table 12 – Access control – Authentication: Requirements
 Description
 Requirement
 4.3.3.6.1
 Develop an
 authentication strategy
 Companies shall have an authentication strategy or approach that
 defines the method(s) of authentication to be used.
 4.3.3.6.2
 Authenticate all users
 before system use
 All users shall be authenticated before using the requested
 application, unless there are compensating combinations of
 entrance control technologies and administrative practices.
 4.3.3.6.3
 Require strong
 authentication methods
 for system administration
 and application
 configuration
 Strong authentication practices (such as requiring strong
 passwords) shall be used on all system administrator access
 accounts and application configuration access accounts.
 4.3.3.6.4
 Log and review all
 access attempts to
 critical systems
 Log files should record all access attempts to critical systems and
 should be reviewed for successful and failed access attempts.
 4.3.3.6.5
 Authenticate all remote
 users at the appropriate
 level
 The organization shall employ an authentication scheme with an
 appropriate level of strength to positively identify a remote
 interactive user.
 4.3.3.6.6
 Develop a policy for
 remote login and
 connections
 The organization shall develop a policy addressing remote login by
 a user and/or remote connections (for example, task-to-task
 connections) to the control system which defines appropriate
 system responses to failed login attempts and periods of inactivity.
 62443-2-1 Ó IEC:2010(E)
 – 31 –
 Description
 Requirement
 4.3.3.6.7
 Disable access account
 after failed remote login
 attempts
 After some number of failed login attempts by a remote user, the
 system should disable the access account for a certain amount of
 time.
 4.3.3.6.8
 Require re-authentication
 after remote system
 inactivity
 After a defined period of inactivity, a remote user should be required
 to re-authenticate before the remote user can re-access the system.
 4.3.3.6.9
 Employ authentication
 for task-to-task
 communication
 Systems should employ appropriate authentication schemes for
 task-to-task communication between applications and devices.
 4.3.3.7
 Element: Access control – Authorization
 Objective:
 Grant access privileges to resources upon successful authentication of the user and
 identification of their associated access account. The privileges granted are determined by
 the account configuration set up during the account administration step in the business
 process.
 Description:
 Access control is the method of controlling who or what resources can access premises and
 systems and what type of access is permitted. There are three key aspects associated with
 access control: account administration, authentication and authorization. All three aspects
 shall work together to establish a sound and secure access control strategy.
 Authorization explores the controls aimed at protecting information and assets from deliberate
 and inadvertent destruction, change or disclosure. It focuses specifically on measures
 designed to ensure that the authenticated agents have access to required information assets.
 As with authentication, authorization is dependent upon the location of the user.
 Rationale:
 It is important in the IACS environment to make sure that the right people have access to the
 correct information and systems and are not prevented from doing their job due to lack of
 authorization. Authorization to perform specific job functions is provided by the application.
 There is a need to consider safety implications when developing the authorization strategy.
 Requirements:
 Table 13 – Access control – Authorization: Requirements
 Description
 Requirement
 4.3.3.7.1
 Define an authorization
 security policy
 Rules that define the privileges authorized under access accounts
 for personnel in various job roles shall be defined in an
 authorization security policy that is clearly documented and applied
 to all personnel upon authentication.
 4.3.3.7.2
 Establish appropriate
 logical and physical
 permission methods to
 access IACS devices
 The permission to access IACS devices shall be logical (rules that
 grant or deny access to known users based on their roles), physical
 (locks, cameras, and other controls that restrict access to an active
 computer console), or both.
 4.3.3.7.3
 Control access to
 information or systems
 via role-based access
 accounts
 Access accounts should be role based to manage access to
 appropriate information or systems for that user’s role. Safety
 implications shall be considered when defining roles.
 – 32 –
 62443-2-1 Ó IEC:2010(E)
 Description
 Requirement
 4.3.3.7.4
 Employ multiple
 authorization methods
 for critical IACS
 In critical control environments, multiple authorization methods
 should be employed to limit access to the IACS.
 4.3.4
 Element group: Implementation
 4.3.4.1
 Description of element group
 The third element group in this category is Implementation. This element within this group
 discusses issues related to implementing the CSMS. Figure 5 shows a graphical
 representation of the four elements in the element group:
 ·
 Risk management and implementation,
 ·
 System development and maintenance,
 ·
 Information and document management and
 ·
 Incident planning and response.
 Addressing risk with the CSMS
 Implementation
 Risk
 management and
 implementation
 System
 development and
 maintenance
 Information and
 document
 management
 Incident planning
 and response
 Figure 5 – Graphical view of element group: Implementation
 4.3.4.2
 Element: Risk management and implementation
 Objective:
 Reduce risk to and maintain risk at an acceptable level in the IACS based upon the
 organization’s tolerance for risk.
 Description:
 Risk
 management
 and implementation
 addresses
 the
 selection,
 development
 and
 implementation of countermeasures that are commensurate with risks. The countermeasures
 may take into account the use of products with strong inherent security capabilities, manual
 and procedural security controls and technology based controls to prevent or reduce security
 incidents.
 Rationale:
 The risk management and implementation element is used to turn the results from the risk
 identification classification and assessment element of this standard into effective and
 concrete actions. Although it can never be eliminated totally, risk can be managed in a
 manner that balances the cost of risk avoidance against the potential cost of the incident.
 IEC 2316/10
 62443-2-1 Ó IEC:2010(E)
 – 33 –
 Requirements:
 Table 14 – Risk management and implementation: Requirements
 Description
 Requirement
 4.3.4.2.1
 Manage IACS risk on an
 ongoing basis
 The organization shall adopt a risk management framework that
 includes selection and implementation of IACS devices and
 countermeasures to manage risk to an acceptable level over the life
 of the facility.
 4.3.4.2.2
 Employ a common set of
 countermeasures
 A common defined set of countermeasures (technical and
 administrative) to address both physical and cyber security risks
 should be defined and applied across the organization wherever a
 specific risk is identified.
 4.3.4.3
 Element: System development and maintenance
 Objective:
 Ensure that the organization’s desired risk tolerance level is maintained as its IACS assets
 evolve through the maintenance of existing systems as well as development and procurement
 of new systems.
 Description:
 This element addresses designing cyber security into systems from the earliest development
 stages. It also involves the maintenance of those cyber security policies and procedures as
 the system changes throughout its lifecycle.
 Rationale:
 Organizations have found that maintenance of the CSMS is more challenging than
 establishing it. For this reason, procedures that proactively address cyber security as part of
 the natural evolution of the IACS systems are critical.
 Requirements:
 Table 15 – System development and maintenance: Requirements
 Description
 Requirement
 4.3.4.3.1
 Define and test security
 functions and
 capabilities
 The security functions and capabilities of each new component of
 the IACS shall be defined up front, developed or achieved via
 procurement, and tested together with other components so that the
 entire system meets the desired security profile.
 4.3.4.3.2
 Develop and implement a
 change management
 system
 A change management system for the IACS environment shall be
 developed and implemented. The change management process
 shall follow separation of duty principles to avoid conflicts of
 interest.
 4.3.4.3.3
 Assess all the risks of
 changing the IACS
 Using clearly defined criteria, proposed changes to IACS shall be
 reviewed for their potential impact to HSE risks and cyber security
 risks by individuals technically knowledgeable about the industrial
 operation and the IACS system.
 4.3.4.3.4
 Require security policies
 for system development
 or maintenance changes
 The security requirements of a new system being installed in the
 IACS environment in an existing zone shall meet the security
 policies and procedures required for that zone/environment.
 Similarly, maintenance upgrades or changes shall meet the security
 requirements for the zone.
 – 34 –
 62443-2-1 Ó IEC:2010(E)
 Description
 Requirement
 4.3.4.3.5
 Integrate cyber security
 and process safety
 management (PSM)
 change management
 procedures
 Cyber security change management procedures should be
 integrated with existing PSM procedures.
 4.3.4.3.6
 Review and maintain
 policies and procedures
 The operations and change management policies and procedures
 shall be reviewed and kept current to ensure that security changes
 do not increase risks to safety or business continuity.
 4.3.4.3.7
 Establish and document
 a patch management
 procedure
 A procedure for patch management shall be established,
 documented, and followed.
 4.3.4.3.8
 Establish and document
 antivirus/malware
 management procedure
 A procedure for antivirus/malware management shall be
 established, documented, and followed.
 4.3.4.3.9
 Establish backup and
 restoration procedure
 A procedure for backing up and restoring computer systems and
 protecting backup copies shall be established, used, and verified by
 appropriate testing.
 4.3.4.4
 Element: Information and document management
 Objective:
 Classify, manage, safeguard and present the information associated with the IACS and CSMS
 at the appropriate time to authorized personnel.
 Description:
 Organizations should employ comprehensive information and document management policies
 for information assets within the scope of their IACS and CSMS. Care should be given to
 protect this information and verify that the appropriate versions are retained. Information
 classification systems that allow information assets to receive the appropriate level of
 protection are the key to meeting this objective.
 Rationale:
 Much of the information about the IACS may be stored electronically or in hardcopy outside
 the IACS and is not protected by IACS authorization controls. Unauthorized access and use of
 this information is a threat to IACS security. This information needs to be appropriately
 controlled and managed.
 Requirements:
 Table 16 – Information and document management: Requirements
 Description
 Requirement
 4.3.4.4.1
 Develop lifecycle
 management processes
 for IACS information
 A lifecycle document management process shall be developed and
 maintained for IACS information.
 4.3.4.4.2
 Define information
 classification levels
 Information classification levels (for example, company confidential,
 restricted and public) shall be defined for access and control,
 including sharing, copying, transmitting, and distributing appropriate
 for the level of protection required.
 62443-2-1 Ó IEC:2010(E)
 – 35 –
 Description
 Requirement
 4.3.4.4.3
 Classify all CSMS
 information assets
 All logical assets within the scope of the CSMS (that is, control
 system design information, vulnerability assessments, network
 diagrams and industrial operations programs) shall be classified to
 indicate the protection required commensurate with the
 consequence of its unauthorized disclosure or modification.
 4.3.4.4.4
 Ensure appropriate
 records control
 Policies and procedures should be developed detailing retention,
 physical and integrity protection, destruction, and disposal of all
 assets based on their classification, including written and electronic
 records, equipment and other media containing information, with
 consideration for legal or regulatory requirements.
 4.3.4.4.5
 Ensure long-term records
 retrieval
 Appropriate measures should be employed to ensure long-term
 records can be retrieved (that is, converting the data to a newer
 format or retaining older equipment that can read the data).
 4.3.4.4.6
 Maintain information
 classifications
 Information that requires special control or handling should be
 reviewed on a periodic basis to validate that special handling is still
 required.
 4.3.4.4.7
 Audit the information and
 document management
 process
 Periodic reviews of compliance to the information and document
 management policy should be performed.
 4.3.4.5
 Element: Incident planning and response
 Objective:
 Predefine how the organization will detect and react to cyber security incidents.
 Description:
 When developing a program for incident planning and response, it is important to include all
 systems in scope and not just limit the effort to traditional computer room facilities. Part of the
 incident response plan should include procedures for how the organization will respond to
 incidents, including notification and documentation methods, investigations, recoveries and
 subsequent follow-up practices.
 Rationale:
 Identifying an incident early and responding appropriately can limit the consequences of the
 event. Incident planning and response provides the organization the opportunity to plan for
 security incidents and then to respond according to the established company practices. No
 matter how much care is taken in protecting a system, it is always possible that unwanted
 intrusions might compromise the system. Technology vulnerabilities continue to exist and
 external threats are increasing in number and sophistication, therefore requiring a robust
 strategy for determining the appropriate planning and response. Insight gained from actual
 incidents is captured because it is critical for evaluating and improving the CSMS.
 Requirements:
 Table 17 – Incident planning and response: Requirements
 Description
 Requirement
 4.3.4.5.1
 Implement an incident
 response plan
 The organization shall implement an incident response plan that
 identifies responsible personnel and defines actions to be
 performed by designated individuals.
 – 36 –
 62443-2-1 Ó IEC:2010(E)
 Description
 Requirement
 4.3.4.5.2
 Communicate the
 incident response plan
 The incident response plan shall be communicated to all appropriate
 organizations.
 4.3.4.5.3
 Establish a reporting
 procedure for unusual
 activities and events
 The organization should establish a reporting procedure to
 communicate unusual activities and events that may actually be
 cyber security incidents.
 4.3.4.5.4
 Educate employees on
 reporting cyber security
 incidents
 Employees should be educated on their responsibility to report
 cyber security incidents and the methods of reporting these
 incidents.
 4.3.4.5.5
 Report cyber security
 incidents in a timely
 manner
 The organization should report cyber security incidents in a timely
 manner.
 4.3.4.5.6
 Identify and respond to
 incidents
 If an incident is identified, the organization shall promptly respond in
 accordance with the established procedures.
 4.3.4.5.7
 Identify failed and
 successful cyber security
 breaches
 The organization should have procedures in place to identify failed
 and successful cyber security breaches.
 4.3.4.5.8
 Document the details of
 incidents
 The details of an identified incident shall be documented to record
 the incident, the response, the lessons learned, and any actions
 taken to modify the CSMS in light of this incident.
 4.3.4.5.9
 Communicate the
 incident details
 The documented details of an incident shall be communicated to all
 appropriate organizations (that is, management, IT, process safety,
 automation and control engineering security and manufacturing) in a
 timely manner.
 4.3.4.5.10
 Address and correct
 issues discovered
 The organization shall have a business methodology in place to
 address issues discovered and ensure they are corrected.
 4.3.4.5.11
 Conduct drills
 Drills should be conducted to test the incident response program on
 a routine basis.
 4.4
 Category: Monitoring and improving the CSMS
 4.4.1
 Description of category
 The third main category of the CSMS is titled Monitoring and Improving the CSMS. It involves
 both ensuring that the CSMS is being used and also reviewing the CSMS itself for
 effectiveness. Figure 6 shows a graphical representation of the two elements in the category:
 ·
 Conformance and
 ·
 Review, improve and maintain the CSMS.
 Monitoring and improving the CSMS
 Conformance
 Review, improve and
 maintain the CSMS
 Figure 6 – Graphical view of category: Monitoring and improving the CSMS
 4.4.2
 Element: Conformance
 Objective:
 Ensure that the CSMS developed for an organization is followed.
 IEC 2317/10
 62443-2-1 Ó IEC:2010(E)
 – 37 –
 Description:
 Conformance with a CSMS means the organization is adhering to its stated policies,
 executing the procedures at the correct time and producing the appropriate reports to allow
 for future review.
 Rationale:
 Irrespective of the quality of a CSMS, if it is not used, then it does not add any value to the
 organization and does not help reduce risk.
 Requirements:
 Table 18 – Conformance: Requirements
 Description
 Requirement
 4.4.2.1
 Specify the methodology of
 the audit process
 The audit program shall specify the methodology of the audit
 process.
 4.4.2.2
 Conduct periodic IACS
 audits
 Validate that the IACS conforms to the CSMS. The CSMS shall
 include periodic audits of the IACS, to validate that the security
 policies and procedures are performing as intended and meet the
 security objectives for the zone.
 4.4.2.3
 Establish conformance
 metrics
 The organization should define performance indicators and success
 criteria, which are used to monitor conformance to the CSMS. The
 results from each periodic audit should be expressed in the form of
 performance against these metrics to display security performance
 and security trends.
 4.4.2.4
 Establish a document audit
 trail
 A list of documents and reports required to establish an audit trail
 shall be developed.
 4.4.2.5
 Define punitive measures
 for non-conformance
 The organization shall state what non-conformance with the CSMS
 means, and any related punitive measures shall also be defined.
 4.4.2.6
 Ensure auditors’
 competence
 The required competency for auditing the specific systems that are
 in scope should be specified. The level of independence required
 should be determined as part of the governance.
 4.4.3
 Element: Review, improve and maintain the CSMS
 Objective:
 Ensure that the CSMS continues to meet its goals over time.
 Description:
 Reviewing, improving and maintaining the CSMS establishes a continuing oversight of the
 CSMS to check that it functions effectively and to manage required changes to the CSMS
 over time.
 Rationale:
 Review and monitoring are required for the CSMS to remain effective, since the CSMS shall
 respond to changes in internal and external threats, vulnerabilities and consequences, as well
 as changes in risk tolerance, legal requirements and evolving technical and non-technical
 approaches to risk mitigation.
 – 38 –
 62443-2-1 Ó IEC:2010(E)
 Requirements:
 Table 19 – Review, improve and maintain the CSMS: Requirements
 Description
 Requirement
 4.4.3.1
 Assign an organization to manage and
 implement changes to the CSMS
 An organization shall be assigned to manage and
 coordinate the refinement and implementation of the
 CSMS changes and use a defined method in making
 and implementing changes.
 4.4.3.2
 Evaluate the CSMS periodically
 The managing organization shall periodically evaluate
 the overall CSMS to ensure the security objectives are
 being met.
 4.4.3.3
 Establish triggers to evaluate CSMS
 The organization should establish a list of triggers with
 set thresholds, which would result in a review of related
 elements of the CSMS and perhaps a change. These
 triggers include at a minimum: occurrence of serious
 security incidents, legal and regulatory changes,
 changes in risk and major changes to the IACS. The
 thresholds should be based on the organization’s risk
 tolerance.
 4.4.3.4
 Identify and implement corrective and
 preventive actions
 The organization shall identify and implement
 appropriate corrective and preventive actions that
 modify the CSMS to meet security objectives.
 4.4.3.5
 Review risk tolerance
 A review of the organization’s tolerance for risk should
 be initiated when there are major changes to the
 organization, technology, business objectives, internal
 business and external events including identified
 threats and changes in social climate.
 4.4.3.6
 Monitor and evaluate industry CSMS
 strategies
 Management system owners should monitor the
 industry for CSMS best practices for risk assessment
 and risk mitigation and evaluate their applicability.
 4.4.3.7
 Monitor and evaluate applicable
 legislation relevant to cyber security
 The organization shall identify applicable and changing
 legislation relevant to cyber security.
 4.4.3.8
 Request and report employee feedback
 on security suggestions
 Employee feedback on security suggestions should be
 actively sought and reported back to senior
 management as appropriate on performance
 shortcomings and opportunities.