ISO/IEC 27001:2022(E)
Foreword
ISO (the International Organization for Standardization) and IEC (the International Electrotechnical 
Commission) form the specialized system for worldwide standardization. National bodies that are 
members of ISO or IEC participate in the development of International Standards through technical 
committees established by the respective organization to deal with particular fields of technical 
activity. ISO and IEC technical committees collaborate in fields of mutual interest. Other international 
organizations, governmental and non-governmental, in liaison with ISO and IEC, also take part in the 
work.
The procedures used to develop this document and those intended for its further maintenance 
are described in the ISO/IEC Directives, Part 1. In particular, the different approval criteria 
needed for the different types of document should be noted. This document was drafted in 
accordance with the editorial rules of the ISO/IEC Directives, Part 2 (see www.iso.org/directives or 
www.iec.ch/members_experts/refdocs).
Attention is drawn to the possibility that some of the elements of this document may be the subject 
of patent rights. ISO and IEC shall not be held responsible for identifying any or all such patent 
rights. Details of any patent rights identified during the development of the document will be in the 
Introduction and/or on the ISO list of patent declarations received (see www.iso.org/patents) or the IEC 
list of patent declarations received (see https://patents.iec.ch).
Any trade name used in this document is information given for the convenience of users and does not 
constitute an endorsement.
For an explanation of the voluntary nature of standards, the meaning of ISO specific terms and 
expressions related to conformity assessment, as well as information about ISO's adherence to 
the World Trade Organization (WTO) principles in the Technical Barriers to Trade (TBT) see 
www.iso.org/iso/foreword.html. In the IEC, see www.iec.ch/understanding-standards.
This document was prepared by Joint Technical Committee ISO/IEC  JTC  1, Information Technology, 
Subcommittee SC 27, Information security, cybersecurity and privacy protection.
This third edition cancels and replaces the second edition (ISO/IEC 27001:2013), which has been 
technically revised. It also incorporates the Technical Corrigenda ISO/IEC 27001:2013/Cor 1:2014 and 
ISO/IEC 27001:2013/Cor 2:2015.
The main changes are as follows:
—	
the text has been aligned with the harmonized structure for management system standards 
and ISO/IEC 27002:2022.
Any feedback or questions on this document should be directed to the user’s national standards 
body. A complete listing of these bodies can be found at www.iso.org/members.html and 
www.iec.ch/national-committees.
iv
	
﻿
© ISO/IEC 2022 – All rights reserved

