ISO/IEC 27001:2022(E)
Introduction
0.1   General
This document has been prepared to provide requirements for establishing, implementing, maintaining 
and continually improving an information security management system. The adoption of an 
information security management system is a strategic decision for an organization. The establishment 
and implementation of an organization’s information security management system is influenced by the 
organization’s needs and objectives, security requirements, the organizational processes used and the 
size and structure of the organization. All of these influencing factors are expected to change over time.
The information security management system preserves the confidentiality, integrity and availability 
of information by applying a risk management process and gives confidence to interested parties that 
risks are adequately managed.
It is important that the information security management system is part of and integrated with the 
organization’s processes and overall management structure and that information security is considered 
in the design of processes, information systems, and controls. It is expected that an information security 
management system implementation will be scaled in accordance with the needs of the organization.
This document can be used by internal and external parties to assess the organization's ability to meet 
the organization’s own information security requirements.
The order in which requirements are presented in this document does not reflect their importance 
or imply the order in which they are to be implemented. The list items are enumerated for reference 
purpose only.
ISO/IEC  27000 describes the overview and the vocabulary of information security management 
systems, referencing the information security management system family of standards (including 
ISO/IEC 27003[2], ISO/IEC 27004[3] and ISO/IEC 27005[4]), with related terms and definitions.
 
0.2   Compatibility with other management system standards
This document applies the high-level structure, identical sub-clause titles, identical text, common terms, 
and core definitions defined in Annex SL of ISO/IEC Directives, Part 1, Consolidated ISO Supplement, 
and therefore maintains compatibility with other management system standards that have adopted the 
Annex SL.
This common approach defined in the Annex SL will be useful for those organizations that choose to 
operate a single management system that meets the requirements of two or more management system 
standards.
v
© ISO/IEC 2022 – All rights reserved	
﻿
