INTERNATIONAL STANDARD
ISO/IEC 27001:2022(E)
Information security, cybersecurity and privacy 
protection — Information security management systems 
— Requirements
1	 ​Scope
This document specifies the requirements for establishing, implementing, maintaining and continually 
improving an information security management system within the context of the organization. This 
document also includes requirements for the assessment and treatment of information security risks 
tailored to the needs of the organization. The requirements set out in this document are generic and are 
intended to be applicable to all organizations, regardless of type, size or nature. Excluding any of the 
requirements specified in Clauses 4 to 10 is not acceptable when an organization claims conformity to 
this document.
2	 ​Normative references
The following documents are referred to in the text in such a way that some or all of their content 
constitutes requirements of this document. For dated references, only the edition cited applies. For 
undated references, the latest edition of the referenced document (including any amendments) applies.
ISO/IEC  27000, Information technology — Security techniques — Information security management 
systems — Overview and vocabulary
3 ​Terms and definitions
For the purposes of this document, the terms and definitions given in ISO/IEC 27000 apply.
ISO and IEC maintain terminology databases for use in standardization at the following addresses:
—	 ISO Online browsing platform: available at https://​www​.iso​.org/​obp
—	 IEC Electropedia: available at https://​www​.electropedia​.org/​
4	 ​Context of the organization
4.1	 ​Understanding the organization and its context
The organization shall determine external and internal issues that are relevant to its purpose and that 
affect its ability to achieve the intended outcome(s) of its information security management system.
NOTE	
Determining these issues refers to establishing the external and internal context of the organization 
considered in Clause 5.4.1 of ISO 31000:2018[5].
4.2	 ​Understanding the needs and expectations of interested parties
The organization shall determine:
a)	 interested parties that are relevant to the information security management system; 
b)	 the relevant requirements of these interested parties; 
c)	
which of these requirements will be addressed through the information security management 
system. 
1
© ISO/IEC 2022 – All rights reserved	
﻿
