ISO/IEC 27001:2022(E)
b)	 documented information determined by the organization as being necessary for the effectiveness 
of the information security management system.
NOTE	
The extent of documented information for an information security management system can differ 
from one organization to another due to:
1)	
the size of organization and its type of activities, processes, products and services;
2)	
the complexity of processes and their interactions; and
3)	
the competence of persons.
7.5.2	
​Creating and updating
When creating and updating documented information the organization shall ensure appropriate:
a)	 identification and description (e.g. a title, date, author, or reference number);
b)	 format (e.g. language, software version, graphics) and media (e.g. paper, electronic); and
c)	
review and approval for suitability and adequacy.
7.5.3	
​Control of documented information
Documented information required by the information security management system and by this 
document shall be controlled to ensure:
a)	 it is available and suitable for use, where and when it is needed; and
b)	 it is adequately protected (e.g. from loss of confidentiality, improper use, or loss of integrity).
For the control of documented information, the organization shall address the following activities, as 
applicable:
c)	
distribution, access, retrieval and use;
d)	 storage and preservation, including the preservation of legibility;
e)	 control of changes (e.g. version control); and
f)	
retention and disposition.
Documented information of external origin, determined by the organization to be necessary for 
the planning and operation of the information security management system, shall be identified as 
appropriate, and controlled.
NOTE	
Access can imply a decision regarding the permission to view the documented information only, or 
the permission and authority to view and change the documented information, etc.
8	 ​Operation
8.1	 ​Operational planning and control
The organization shall plan, implement and control the processes needed to meet requirements, and to 
implement the actions determined in Clause 6, by: 
—	 establishing criteria for the processes; 
—	 implementing control of the processes in accordance with the criteria. 
Documented information shall be available to the extent necessary to have confidence that the 
processes have been carried out as planned. 
© ISO/IEC 2022 – All rights reserved	
﻿
﻿
7
