ISO/IEC 27001:2022(E)
The organization shall control planned changes and review the consequences of unintended changes, 
taking action to mitigate any adverse effects, as necessary. 
The organization shall ensure that externally provided processes, products or services that are relevant 
to the information security management system are controlled.
8.2	 ​Information security risk assessment
The organization shall perform information security risk assessments at planned intervals or when 
significant changes are proposed or occur, taking account of the criteria established in 6.1.2 a).
The organization shall retain documented information of the results of the information security risk 
assessments.
8.3	 ​Information security risk treatment
The organization shall implement the information security risk treatment plan.
The organization shall retain documented information of the results of the information security risk 
treatment.
9	 ​Performance evaluation
9.1	 ​Monitoring, measurement, analysis and evaluation
The organization shall determine:
a)	 what needs to be monitored and measured, including information security processes and controls;
b)	 the methods for monitoring, measurement, analysis and evaluation, as applicable, to ensure 
valid results. The methods selected should produce comparable and reproducible results to be 
considered valid;
c)	
when the monitoring and measuring shall be performed;
d)	 who shall monitor and measure;
e)	 when the results from monitoring and measurement shall be analysed and evaluated; 
f)	
who shall analyse and evaluate these results.
Documented information shall be available as evidence of the results.
The organization shall evaluate the information security performance and the effectiveness of the 
information security management system.
9.2	 ​Internal audit
9.2.1	
General
The organization shall conduct internal audits at planned intervals to provide information on whether 
the information security management system:
a)	 conforms to
1)	 the organization’s own requirements for its information security management system; 
	
﻿
© ISO/IEC 2022 – All rights reserved

﻿
8
