ISO/IEC 27001:2022(E)
5.12
Classification of information
Control
Information shall be classified according to the information security 
needs of the organization based on confidentiality, integrity, availability 
and relevant interested party requirements.
5.13
Labelling of information
Control
An appropriate set of procedures for information labelling shall be 
developed and implemented in accordance with the information clas­
sification scheme adopted by the organization.
5.14
Information transfer
Control
Information transfer rules, procedures, or agreements shall be in place 
for all types of transfer facilities within the organization and between 
the organization and other parties.
5.15
Access control
Control
Rules to control physical and logical access to information and other 
associated assets shall be established and implemented based on busi­
ness and information security requirements.
5.16
Identity management
Control
The full life cycle of identities shall be managed.
5.17
Authentication information
Control
Allocation and management of authentication information shall be 
controlled by a management process, including advising personnel on 
appropriate handling of authentication information.
5.18
Access rights
Control
Access rights to information and other associated assets shall be 
provisioned, reviewed, modified and removed in accordance with the 
organization’s topic-specific policy on and rules for access control.
5.19
Information security in supplier 
relationships
Control
Processes and procedures shall be defined and implemented to manage 
the information security risks associated with the use of supplier’s 
products or services.
5.20
Addressing information security 
within supplier agreements
Control
Relevant information security requirements shall be established and 
agreed with each supplier based on the type of supplier relationship.
5.21
Managing information security 
in the information and commu­
nication technology (ICT) supply 
chain
Control
Processes and procedures shall be defined and implemented to manage 
the information security risks associated with the ICT products and 
services supply chain.
5.22
Monitoring, review and change 
management of supplier services
Control
The organization shall regularly monitor, review, evaluate and manage 
change in supplier information security practices and service delivery.
5.23
Information security for use of 
cloud services
Control
Processes for acquisition, use, management and exit from cloud services 
shall be established in accordance with the organization’s information 
security requirements.
5.24
Information security incident 
management planning and prepa­
ration
Control
The organization shall plan and prepare for managing information secu­
rity incidents by defining, establishing and communicating information 
security incident management processes, roles and responsibilities.
Table A.1 (continued)
Table A.1 (continued)
	
﻿
© ISO/IEC 2022 – All rights reserved

﻿
12
